
1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2003 Apr;47(4):1297-300.

Imipenem resistance in a Salmonella clinical strain due to plasmid-mediated class
A carbapenemase KPC-2.

Miriagou V(1), Tzouvelekis LS, Rossiter S, Tzelepi E, Angulo FJ, Whichard JM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Bacteriology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute. Department of
Microbiology, Medical School, University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

A Salmonella enterica serotype Cubana isolate exhibiting resistance to most
beta-lactam antibiotics, including oxyimino-cephalosporins and imipenem, was
isolated from a 4-year-old boy with gastroenteritis in Maryland. beta-Lactam
resistance was mediated by a conjugative plasmid that encoded KPC-2, a class A
carbapenemase previously found in a Klebsiella pneumoniae isolate from the
Maryland area as well. Sequence analysis of the flanking regions indicated a
potential association of bla(KPC-2) with mobile structures.


PMCID: PMC152505
PMID: 12654661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
AF481906.1.gb:   PUBMED   12654661
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2003 Dec;47(12):3881-9.

Carbapenem-resistant strain of Klebsiella oxytoca harboring
carbapenem-hydrolyzing beta-lactamase KPC-2.

Yigit H(1), Queenan AM, Rasheed JK, Biddle JW, Domenech-Sanchez A, Alberti S,
Bush K, Tenover FC.

Author information: 
(1)Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Wallingford,
Connecticut 06492, USA.

We investigated a Klebsiella oxytoca isolate demonstrating resistance to
imipenem, meropenem, extended-spectrum cephalosporins, and aztreonam. The MICs of
both imipenem and meropenem were 32 microg/ml. The beta-lactamase activity
against imipenem and meropenem was inhibited in the presence of clavulanic acid. 
Isoelectric focusing studies demonstrated five beta-lactamases with pIs of 8.2
(SHV-46), 6.7 (KPC-2), 6.5 (unknown), 6.4 (probable OXY-2), and 5.4 (TEM-1). The 
presence of the bla(SHV) and bla(TEM) genes was confirmed by specific PCR assays 
and DNA sequence analysis. Transformation and conjugation studies with
Escherichia coli showed that the beta-lactamase with a pI of 6.7, Klebsiella
pneumoniae carbapenemase-2 (KPC-2), was encoded on an approximately 70-kb
conjugative plasmid that also carried SHV-46, TEM-1, and the beta-lactamase with 
a pI of 6.5. The bla(KPC-2) determinant was cloned in E. coli and conferred
resistance to imipenem, meropenem, extended-spectrum cephalosporins, and
aztreonam. The amino acid sequence of KPC-2 showed a single amino acid
difference, S174G, when compared with KPC-1, another carbapenem-hydrolyzing
beta-lactamase from K. pneumoniae 1534. Hydrolysis studies showed that purified
KPC-2 hydrolyzed not only carbapenems but also penicillins, cephalosporins, and
aztreonam. KPC-2 had the highest affinity for meropenem. The kinetic studies
revealed that KPC-2 was inhibited by clavulanic acid and tazobactam. An
examination of the outer membrane proteins of the parent K. oxytoca strain
demonstrated that it expressed detectable levels of OmpK36 (the homolog of OmpC) 
and a higher-molecular-weight OmpK35 (the homolog of OmpF). Thus, carbapenem
resistance in K. oxytoca 3127 is due to production of the Bush group 2f, class A,
carbapenem-hydrolyzing beta-lactamase KPC-2. This beta-lactamase is likely
located on a transposon that is part of a conjugative plasmid and thus has a very
high potential for dissemination.


PMCID: PMC296202
PMID: 14638498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
AY210886.1.gb:   PUBMED   14638498
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2005 Oct;49(10):4423-4.

Plasmid-mediated carbapenem-hydrolyzing beta-lactamase KPC in a Klebsiella
pneumoniae isolate from France.

Naas T, Nordmann P, Vedel G, Poyart C.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.49.10.4423-4424.2005 
PMCID: PMC1251528
PMID: 16189140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
EU176012.1.gb:   PUBMED   16189140
EU176013.1.gb:   PUBMED   16189140
EU176014.1.gb:   PUBMED   16189140
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2006 Aug;50(8):2880-2.

First detection of the plasmid-mediated class A carbapenemase KPC-2 in clinical
isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae from South America.

Villegas MV(1), Lolans K, Correa A, Suarez CJ, Lopez JA, Vallejo M, Quinn JP;
Colombian Nosocomial Resistance Study Group.

Author information: 
(1)CIDEIM (International Center for Medical Research and Training), Cali,
Colombia.

The plasmid-mediated class A carbapenemase KPC-2 was isolated from unrelated
Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates in Medellin, Colombia. These KPC enzymes are the
first from South America and the second isolation outside of the United States.
The expanding geographic spread of KPC carbapenemases underscores the importance 
of clinical recognition of these enzymes.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00186-06 
PMCID: PMC1538657
PMID: 16870793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
DQ523564.1.gb:   PUBMED   16870793
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2007 Feb;51(2):763-5. Epub 2006 Dec 4.

Plasmid-mediated KPC-2 in a Klebsiella pneumoniae isolate from China.

Wei ZQ(1), Du XX, Yu YS, Shen P, Chen YG, Li LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Infectious Diseases of the Public Health Ministry, 1st
Affiliated Hospital, Medical School, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China.

Comment in
    Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2008 Feb;52(2):798-9.

A carbapenem-resistant isolate of Klebsiella pneumoniae producing class A
carbapenemase KPC-2 was identified in Zhejiang, China. The KPC-2 gene was located
on an approximately 60-kb plasmid in a genetic environment partially different
from that of blaKPC-2 in the isolates from the United States and Colombia.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01053-06 
PMCID: PMC1797727
PMID: 17145797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
DQ897687.1.gb:   PUBMED   17145797
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2008 Apr;52(4):1257-63. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01451-07.
Epub 2008 Jan 28.

Genetic structures at the origin of acquisition of the beta-lactamase bla KPC
gene.

Naas T(1), Cuzon G, Villegas MV, Lartigue MF, Quinn JP, Nordmann P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Bactériologie-Virologie, INSERM U914: Emerging Resistance to
Antibiotics, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Le
Kremlin-Bicêtre 94275, and Faculté de Médecine Paris-Sud, Paris, France.
thierry.naas@bct.aphp.fr

Genetic structures surrounding the carbapenem-hydrolyzing Ambler class A bla KPC 
gene were characterized in several KPC-positive Klebsiella pneumoniae and
Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains isolated from the United States, Colombia, and
Greece. The bla KPC genes were associated in all cases with transposon-related
structures. In the K. pneumoniae YC isolate from the United States, the
beta-lactamase bla KPC-2 gene was located on a novel Tn3-based transposon,
Tn4401. Tn4401 was 10 kb in size, was delimited by two 39-bp imperfect inverted
repeat sequences, and harbored, in addition to the beta-lactamase bla KPC-2 gene,
a transposase gene, a resolvase gene, and two novel insertion sequences, ISKpn6
and ISKpn7. Tn4401 has been identified in all isolates. However, two isoforms of 
this transposon were found: Tn4401a was found in K. pneumoniae YC and K.
pneumoniae GR from the United States and Greece, respectively, and differed by a 
100-bp deletion, located just upstream of the bla KPC-2 gene, compared to the
sequence of Tn4401b, which was found in the Colombian isolates. In all isolates
tested, Tn4401 was flanked by a 5-bp target site duplication, the signature of a 
recent transposition event, and was inserted in different open reading frames
located on plasmids that varied in size and nature. Tn4401 is likely at the
origin of carbapenem-hydrolyzing beta-lactamase KPC mobilization to plasmids and 
its further insertion into various-sized plasmids identified in nonclonally
related K. pneumoniae and P. aeruginosa isolates.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01451-07 
PMCID: PMC2292522
PMID: 18227185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
EU176011.1.gb:   PUBMED   18227185
EU176012.1.gb:   PUBMED   18227185
EU176013.1.gb:   PUBMED   18227185
EU176014.1.gb:   PUBMED   18227185
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Med Microbiol. 2008 Mar;57(Pt 3):332-7. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.47576-0.

High-level carbapenem resistance in a Citrobacter freundii clinical isolate is
due to a combination of KPC-2 production and decreased porin expression.

Zhang R(1), Yang L, Cai JC, Zhou HW, Chen GX.

Author information: 
(1)Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou, PR China.

An imipenem-resistant isolate of Citrobacter freundii ZJ163 (MIC 256 microg
ml(-1)) isolated from a Chinese hospital was investigated. The C. freundii ZJ163 
isolate exhibited high-level resistance to carbapenems, penicillins,
cephalosporins, cefoxitin, aztreonam, quinolones and aminoglycosides. Isoelectric
focusing (IEF) demonstrated three beta-lactamases with pIs of 5.4 (TEM-1), 6.7
(KPC-2) and 7.9 (CTX-M-14). Two different transconjugants (types A and B) were
obtained by conjugation studies. The type A transconjugant exhibited reduced
susceptibility or resistance to penicillins, cephalosporins and aztreonam, but
was susceptible to carbapenems, quinolones and aminoglycosides. The antimicrobial
susceptibility patterns of the type B transconjugant were similar to that of type
A, except for its significantly reduced carbapenem susceptibility (imipenem MIC 2
microg ml(-1)). IEF, specific PCRs and DNA sequence analysis indicated that the
type A transconjugant produced CTX-M-14 beta-lactamase with a pI of 7.9, that the
type B transconjugant produced KPC-2 beta-lactamase with a pI of 6.7 and that the
beta-lactamase with a pI of 5.4 was TEM-1. PCR analysis and sequencing confirmed 
the presence of the ampC gene in the chromosomal DNA from C. freundii ZJ163,
although no activity of AmpC beta-lactamase was detected by IEF. Urea/SDS-PAGE
analysis of outer-membrane proteins revealed that the levels of the 41 and 38 kDa
porins were decreased in C. freundii ZJ163. It was concluded that production of
KPC-2 combined with decreased expression of porins contributes to high-level
resistance to carbapenems in C. freundii ZJ163.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.47576-0 
PMID: 18287296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
EF062508.1.gb:   PUBMED   18287296
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2008 Oct;52(10):3725-36. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00163-08. 
Epub 2008 Jul 14.

Genetic and structural insights into the dissemination potential of the extremely
broad-spectrum class A beta-lactamase KPC-2 identified in an Escherichia coli
strain and an Enterobacter cloacae strain isolated from the same patient in
France.

Petrella S(1), Ziental-Gelus N, Mayer C, Renard M, Jarlier V, Sougakoff W.

Author information: 
(1)UPMC Univ Paris 06, EA1541, Bacteriologie-Hygiène, Paris, France.

Two clinical strains of Escherichia coli (2138) and Enterobacter cloacae (7506)
isolated from the same patient in France and showing resistance to
extended-spectrum cephalosporins and low susceptibility to imipenem were
investigated. Both strains harbored the plasmid-contained bla(TEM-1) and
bla(KPC-2) genes. bla(KLUC-2), encoding a mutant of the chromosomal
beta-lactamase of Kluyvera cryocrescens, was also identified at a plasmid
location in E. cloacae 7506, suggesting the ISEcp1-assisted escape of bla(KLUC)
from the chromosome. Determination of the KPC-2 structure at 1.6 A revealed that 
the binding site was occupied by the C-terminal (C-ter) residues coming from a
symmetric KPC-2 monomer, with the ultimate C-ter Glu interacting with Ser130,
Lys234, Thr235, and Thr237 in the active site. This mode of binding can be
paralleled to the inhibition of the TEM-1 beta-lactamase by the inhibitory
protein BLIP. Determination of the 1.23-A structure of a KPC-2 mutant in which
the five C-ter residues were deleted revealed that the catalytic site was filled 
by a citrate molecule. Structure analysis and docking simulations with cefotaxime
and imipenem provided further insights into the molecular basis of the extremely 
broad spectrum of KPC-2, which behaves as a cefotaximase with significant
activity against carbapenems. In particular, residues 104, 105, 132, and 167 draw
a binding cavity capable of accommodating both the aminothiazole moiety of
cefotaxime and the 6 alpha-hydroxyethyl group of imipenem, with the binding of
the former drug being also favored by a significant degree of freedom at the
level of the loop at positions 96 to 105 and by an enlargement of the binding
site at the end of strand beta 3.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00163-08 
PMCID: PMC2565876
PMID: 18625772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
DQ989639.1.gb:   PUBMED   18625772
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2009 May;53(5):1998-2004. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01355-08.
Epub 2009 Mar 2.

Genetic organization of transposase regions surrounding blaKPC carbapenemase
genes on plasmids from Klebsiella strains isolated in a New York City hospital.

Gootz TD(1), Lescoe MK, Dib-Hajj F, Dougherty BA, He W, Della-Latta P, Huard RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Pfizer Global Research and Development,
Groton, CT 06340, USA. tdgootz@yahoo.com

Carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella strains carrying Klebsiella pneumoniae
carbapenemases (KPC) are endemic to New York City and are spreading across the
United States and internationally. Recent studies have indicated that the KPC
structural gene is located on a 10-kb plasmid-borne element designated Tn4401.
Fourteen Klebsiella pneumoniae strains and one Klebsiella oxytoca strain isolated
at a New York City hospital in 2005 carrying either bla(KPC-2) or bla(KPC-3) were
examined for isoforms of Tn4401. Ten of the Klebsiella strains contained a 100-bp
deletion in Tn4401, corresponding to the Tn4401a isoform. The presence of this
deletion adjacent to the upstream promoter region of bla(KPC) in Tn4401a resulted
in a different -35 promoter sequence of TGGAGA than that of CTGATT present in
isoform Tn4401b. Complete sequencing of one plasmid carrying bla(KPC) from each
of three nonclonal isolates indicated the presence of genes encoding other types 
of antibiotic resistance determinants. The 70.6-kb plasmid from K. pneumoniae
strain S9 carrying bla(KPC-2) revealed two identical copies of Tn4401b inserted
in an inverse fashion, but in this case, one of the elements disrupted a group II
self-splicing intron. In K. pneumoniae strain S15, the Tn4401a element carrying
bla(KPC-2) was found on both a large 120-kb plasmid and a smaller 24-kb plasmid. 
Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis results indicate that the isolates studied
represent a heterogeneous group composed of unrelated as well as closely related 
Klebsiella strains. Our results suggest that endemic KPC-positive Klebsiella
strains constitute a generally nonclonal population comprised of various alleles 
of bla(KPC) on several distinct plasmid genetic backgrounds. This study increases
our understanding of the genetic composition of the evolving and expanding role
of KPC-producing, healthcare-associated, gram-negative pathogens.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01355-08 
PMCID: PMC2681555
PMID: 19258268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
FJ223605.1.gb:   PUBMED   19258268
FJ223606.1.gb:   PUBMED   19258268
FJ223607.1.gb:   PUBMED   19258268
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Euro Surveill. 2009 Apr 2;14(13). pii: 19163.

First identification of class A carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae in 
the Republic of Ireland.

Roche C(1), Cotter M, O Connell N, Crowley B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland.

The Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) was detected in a
carbapenem-resistant respiratory isolate of Klebsiella pneumoniae in an Irish
hospital. This is the first report of a KPC-producing isolate in the Republic of 
Ireland. The isolate was resistant to all beta-lactams. Furthermore, it had
reduced susceptibility to three other classes of non-beta-lactam antibiotics. The
isolate was not associated with travel abroad. Detection of KPC-producing
bacteria has important infection control and public health implications.


PMID: 19341609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
FJ853623.1.gb:   PUBMED   19341609
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2009 Oct;53(10):4333-8. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00260-09.
Epub 2009 Jul 20.

Novel genetic environment of the carbapenem-hydrolyzing beta-lactamase KPC-2
among Enterobacteriaceae in China.

Shen P(1), Wei Z, Jiang Y, Du X, Ji S, Yu Y, Li L.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Disease, First 
Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang
310003, China.

Thirty-nine bla(KPC)-producing isolates of the family Enterobacteriaceae with
carbapenem resistance or reduced carbapenem susceptibility were obtained from
inpatients from eight hospitals in six cities of three provinces in eastern
China. The pulsed-field gel electrophoresis analysis of all 36 Klebsiella
pneumoniae isolates revealed six major patterns. The resistant plasmids of most
isolates were successfully transferred by conjugation and evaluated
experimentally to be 40 to 180 kb in size. A 20.2-kb bla(KPC)-surrounding
nucleotide sequence from plasmid pKP048 has been obtained and contains an
integration structure of a Tn3-based transposon and partial Tn4401 segment, with 
the gene order Tn3-transposase, Tn3-resolvase, ISKpn8, the bla(KPC-2) gene, and
the ISKpn6-like element. The chimera of several transposon-associated elements
indicated a novel genetic environment of the K. pneumoniae carbapenemase
beta-lactamase gene in isolates from China.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00260-09 
PMCID: PMC2764158
PMID: 19620332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
FJ628167.2.gb:   PUBMED   19620332
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2010 Sep;54(9):3967-9. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00137-10.
Epub 2010 Jun 14.

Complete nucleotide sequence of Klebsiella pneumoniae multidrug resistance
plasmid pKP048, carrying blaKPC-2, blaDHA-1, qnrB4, and armA.

Jiang Y(1), Yu D, Wei Z, Shen P, Zhou Z, Yu Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310016, China.

The Klebsiella pneumoniae multidrug resistance plasmid pKP048 was completely
sequenced. This plasmid carries several important resistance determinants, such
as bla(KPC-2), bla(DHA-1), qnrB4, and armA, which confer resistance to
carbapenems, cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones, and aminoglycosides, respectively.
Analysis of the finished 151,188-bp sequence data revealed 163 putative genes,
108 of which were assigned functions such as replication, stable inheritance,
antibiotic resistance, a mobile element, conjugal transfer, and a
restriction-modification system, showing the strong phylogenetic mosaicism and
plasticity of the plasmid.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00137-10 
PMCID: PMC2934982
PMID: 20547789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
FJ628167.2.gb:   PUBMED   20547789
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2010 Oct;54(10):4493-6. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00175-10.
Epub 2010 Aug 9.

Complete nucleotide sequence of KPC-3-encoding plasmid pKpQIL in the epidemic
Klebsiella pneumoniae sequence type 258.

Leavitt A(1), Chmelnitsky I, Carmeli Y, Navon-Venezia S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Molecular Epidemiology and Antibiotic Resistance
Laboratory, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.

We have determined the entire DNA sequence of plasmid pKpQIL, the
bla(KPC-3)-carrying plasmid harbored by the carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella
pneumoniae clone sequence type 258 (ST 258) in Israel. pKpQIL is a 113,637-bp,
self-transmissible plasmid that belongs to the incompatibility group IncFII. It
consists of a large backbone of a pKPN4-like plasmid and carries the
bla(KPC-3)-containing Tn4401a transposon of a pNYC-like plasmid.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00175-10 
PMCID: PMC2944570
PMID: 20696875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
GU595196.1.gb:   PUBMED   20696875
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2011 Apr;30(4):575-80. doi:
10.1007/s10096-010-1124-7. Epub 2010 Dec 14.

Novel genetic environment of the plasmid-mediated KPC-3 gene detected in
Escherichia coli and Citrobacter freundii isolates from China.

Li G(1), Wei Q, Wang Y, Du X, Zhao Y, Jiang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, 12 Central Urumqi Road, Shanghai, China.

The imipenem and meropenem-resistant strains Citrobacter freundii HS70 and
Escherichia coli HS510 were isolated from patients in Shanghai, China. By
isoelectric focusing, PCR amplification and sequencing, these strains were each
found to produce four β-lactamases: TEM-1, KPC-3, SHV-7 and CTX-M-14. A
conjugation experiment and plasmid restriction digestion revealed that the bla
(KPC-3) gene was located on the same plasmid in both isolates. Bidirectional
primer walking sequencing showed that the nucleotide sequence surrounding the 3.8
kb bla(KPC-3) contained a 671-bp insertion similar to that previously
characterized in China. The insertion was located between the promoter and the
coding region of the bla(KPC-3) gene. Susceptibility testing performed on
recombinant strains carrying the bla(KPC-3) gene with or without the insertion
revealed that minimum inhibitory concentrations of imipenem, meropenem, cefepime,
and cefotaxime for E. coli EMU-KPC3 (without insertion) were four times higher
than that of E. coli EKPC3 (with insertion). The 671 bp insertion reduced
bla(KPC-3) expression significantly. Taken together, these results suggest that
KPC-3-producing C. freundii and E. coli have begun to emerge in our hospital.

DOI: 10.1007/s10096-010-1124-7 
PMCID: PMC3052496
PMID: 21153909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
FJ609231.1.gb:   PUBMED   21153909
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2011 Jun;55(6):2937-41. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01670-10.
Epub 2011 Mar 21.

First report of Klebsiella oxytoca strain coproducing KPC-2 and IMP-8
carbapenemases.

Li B(1), Sun JY, Liu QZ, Han LZ, Huang XH, Ni YX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Ruijin Hospital, School of Medicine,
Shanghai Jiaotong University, 197 Ruijin 2nd Rd., Shanghai 200025, People's
Republic of China.

The study shows for the first time the presence of the Klebsiella oxytoca strain 
fp10 coproducing plasmid-mediated KPC-2 and IMP-8 carbapenemases. The strain was 
obtained from the fecal sample of an inpatient and showed high-level resistance
to imipenem and ertapenem (MICs > 32 μg/ml). Conjugation experiments demonstrated
the transferability of the carbapenem-resistant determinants. The results of
plasmid analysis and Southern hybridization revealed that the bla(KPC-2) gene was
located on transferable plasmid pFP10-1 (∼54 kb), whereas the bla(IMP-8) gene was
on transferable plasmid pFP10-2 (∼180 kb). Analysis of the genetic environment of
these two genes has demonstrated that ISKpn6 and ISKpn8 are involved in the
spread of the bla(KPC-2) gene, while the transposable elements IS26, intI1, and
tniC might contribute to the dissemination of the bla(IMP-8) gene. The chimera of
several transposon-associated elements indicated a novel genetic environment of
IMP-type metallo-β-lactamase gene in Enterobacteriaceae from China.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01670-10 
PMCID: PMC3101434
PMID: 21422214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
HQ651092.1.gb:   PUBMED   21422214
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2011 Aug;55(8):3917-21. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00070-11.
Epub 2011 Jun 13.

Susceptibility of Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates from intra-abdominal infections 
and molecular characterization of ertapenem-resistant isolates.

Hawser SP(1), Bouchillon SK, Lascols C, Hackel M, Hoban DJ, Badal RE, Woodford N,
Livermore DM.

Author information: 
(1)IHMA Europe Sàrl, 1066 Epalinges, Switzerland. shawser@ihmainc.com

A total of 2,841 clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae from intra-abdominal 
infections worldwide were collected in the Study for Monitoring Antimicrobial
Resistance Trends (SMART) during 2008 and 2009. Overall, 22.4% of isolates had
extended-spectrum β-lactamases (ESBLs). The most active antibiotics among the 11 
tested were imipenem, amikacin, and ertapenem, though even these, like all other 
comparators, were less consistently active against ESBL-positive isolates than
against ESBL-negative isolates. Globally, 6.5% of isolates were ertapenem
resistant based on the June 2010 clinical breakpoints published by the Clinical
and Laboratory Standards Institute, with MICs of ≥1 μg/ml. Molecular
characterization of 43 isolates with ertapenem MICs of ≥4 μg/ml showed that they 
variously produced CTX-M or SHV ESBLs combined with altered impermeability and/or
had KPC (n = 28), OXA-48 (n = 3), or VIM (n = 1) carbapenemases. Further
monitoring of ertapenem susceptibility and molecular characterization of
ertapenem-resistant isolates are needed.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00070-11 
PMCID: PMC3147618
PMID: 21670192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
HM066995.1.gb:   PUBMED   21670192
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2011 Nov;55(11):5350-3. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00297-11.
Epub 2011 Aug 15.

Wide dissemination of Pseudomonas aeruginosa producing beta-lactamase blaKPC-2
gene in Colombia.

Cuzon G(1), Naas T, Villegas MV, Correa A, Quinn JP, Nordmann P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Bactériologie-Virologie, Hôpital de Bicêtre, 78 rue du Général
Leclerc 94275 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre Cedex, Paris, France.

Ten bla(KPC-2)-harboring Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates from hospitals located
in five different Colombian cities have been characterized. Isolates were
multidrug resistant, belonged to five different pulsotypes, and possessed
naturally chromosome-encoded bla(AmpC) and bla(OXA-50) genes and the acquired
bla(KPC-2) gene. In most cases, the bla(KPC-2) genes were carried by plasmids of 
different sizes and were associated with Tn4401b or a new structure containing
only part of the Tn4401 sequence. This study revealed that several clones of P.
aeruginosa producing bla(KPC-2) are disseminating in Colombia.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00297-11 
PMCID: PMC3195029
PMID: 21844315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JN545009.1.gb:   PUBMED   21844315
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2012 Mar;56(3):1635-8. doi: 10.1128/AAC.06182-11.
Epub 2011 Dec 27.

Partial excision of blaKPC from Tn4401 in carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella
pneumoniae.

Chen L(1), Chavda KD, Mediavilla JR, Jacobs MR, Levi MH, Bonomo RA, Kreiswirth
BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute Tuberculosis Center, International Center for
Public Health, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, New
Jersey, USA.

We describe a novel Tn4401 variant (Tn4401d) in epidemic Klebsiella pneumoniae
clone ST258, from which a partial bla(KPC) fragment has been excised along with
ISKpn7 and a partial tnpA fragment. Nested-PCR experiments confirmed that this
region can be removed from distinct Tn4401 isoforms in both K. pneumoniae and
Escherichia coli. This study highlights that the region surrounding bla(KPC) is
undergoing recombination and that Tn4401 itself is heterogeneous and highly
plastic.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.06182-11 
PMCID: PMC3294926
PMID: 22203593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JN974188.1.gb:   PUBMED   22203593
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2012 Apr;56(4):2143-5. doi: 10.1128/AAC.05308-11.
Epub 2012 Jan 17.

Klebsiella pneumoniae ST258 producing KPC-3 identified in italy carries novel
plasmids and OmpK36/OmpK35 porin variants.

García-Fernández A(1), Villa L, Carta C, Venditti C, Giordano A, Venditti M,
Mancini C, Carattoli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious, Parasitic and Immune-Mediated Diseases, Istituto
Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

A carbapenemase-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae strain, clone ST258 producing
KPC-3, was fully characterized. The entire plasmid content was investigated,
thereby identifying plasmids of the IncFII(k) (two of them similar to pKPQIL and 
pKPN3, respectively), IncX, and ColE types, carrying a formidable set of
resistance genes against toxic compounds, metals, and antimicrobial drugs and a
novel iron(III) uptake system.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.05308-11 
PMCID: PMC3318348
PMID: 22252815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JN233705.2.gb:   PUBMED   22252815
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2012 Apr;56(4):2205-6. doi: 10.1128/AAC.05268-11.
Epub 2012 Jan 30.

First description of KPC-2-producing Pseudomonas putida in Brazil.

Almeida AC(1), Vilela MA, Cavalcanti FL, Martins WM, Morais MA Jr, Morais MM.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

This work reports the identification of the first case of a KΡC-2-producing
Pseudomonas putida isolate (PP36) in Brazil. The PP36 isolate was resistant to
all the antimicrobials tested except polymyxin B. In addition to the discovered
bla(KPC-2) gene, genetic analysis showed the presence of a class 1 integron
containing the dhfrXVb gene and the new allele arr-6, which codes for resistance 
to rifampin. These elements were found in an IncFI 65-kb plasmid.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.05268-11 
PMCID: PMC3318343
PMID: 22290946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JF922884.1.gb:   PUBMED   22290946
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Clin Microbiol. 2012 May;50(5):1632-9. doi: 10.1128/JCM.06115-11. Epub 2012 Feb
8.

Using nucleic acid microarrays to perform molecular epidemiology and detect novel
β-lactamases: a snapshot of extended-spectrum β-lactamases throughout the world.

Lascols C(1), Hackel M, Hujer AM, Marshall SH, Bouchillon SK, Hoban DJ, Hawser
SP, Badal RE, Bonomo RA.

Author information: 
(1)International Health Management Associates, Schaumburg, Illinois, USA.
clascols@ihmainc.com

The worldwide dissemination of extended-spectrum-β-lactamase (ESBL)- and
carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae is a major concern in both hospital
and community settings. Rapid identification of these resistant pathogens and the
genetic determinants they possess is needed to assist in clinical practice and
epidemiological studies. A collection of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
Klebsiella oxytoca, and Proteus mirabilis isolates, including phenotypically
ESBL-positive (n = 1,093) and ESBL-negative isolates (n = 59), obtained in
2008-2009 from a longitudinal surveillance study (SMART) was examined using an in
vitro nucleic acid-based microarray. This approach was used to detect and
identify bla(ESBL) (bla(SHV), bla(TEM), and bla(CTX-M) genes of groups 1, 2, 9,
and 8/25) and bla(KPC) genes and was combined with selective PCR amplification
and DNA sequencing for complete characterization of the bla(ESBL) and bla(KPC)
genes. Of the 1,093 phenotypically ESBL-positive isolates, 1,041 were identified 
as possessing at least one bla(ESBL) gene (95.2% concordance), and 59
phenotypically ESBL-negative isolates, used as negative controls, were negative. 
Several ESBL variants of bla(TEM) (n = 5), bla(SHV) (n = 11), bla(CTX-M) (n =
19), and bla(KPC) (n = 3) were detected. A new bla(SHV) variant, bla(SHV-129),
and a new bla(KPC) variant, bla(KPC-11), were also identified. The most common
bla genes found in this study were bla(CTX-M-15), bla(CTX-M-14), and bla(SHV-12).
Using nucleic acid microarrays, we obtained a "molecular snapshot" of bla(ESBL)
genes in a current global population; we report that CTX-M-15 is still the
dominant ESBL and provide the first report of the new β-lactamase variants
bla(SHV-129) and bla(KPC-11).

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.06115-11 
PMCID: PMC3347121
PMID: 22322349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
HM066995.1.gb:   PUBMED   22322349
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Sci Transl Med. 2012 Aug 22;4(148):148ra116. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3004129.

Tracking a hospital outbreak of carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae with
whole-genome sequencing.

Snitkin ES(1), Zelazny AM, Thomas PJ, Stock F; NISC Comparative Sequencing
Program Group, Henderson DK, Palmore TN, Segre JA.

Author information: 
(1)National Human Genome Research Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The Gram-negative bacteria Klebsiella pneumoniae is a major cause of nosocomial
infections, primarily among immunocompromised patients. The emergence of strains 
resistant to carbapenems has left few treatment options, making infection
containment critical. In 2011, the U.S. National Institutes of Health Clinical
Center experienced an outbreak of carbapenem-resistant K. pneumoniae that
affected 18 patients, 11 of whom died. Whole-genome sequencing was performed on
K. pneumoniae isolates to gain insight into why the outbreak progressed despite
early implementation of infection control procedures. Integrated genomic and
epidemiological analysis traced the outbreak to three independent transmissions
from a single patient who was discharged 3 weeks before the next case became
clinically apparent. Additional genomic comparisons provided evidence for
unexpected transmission routes, with subsequent mining of epidemiological data
pointing to possible explanations for these transmissions. Our analysis
demonstrates that integration of genomic and epidemiological data can yield
actionable insights and facilitate the control of nosocomial transmission.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3004129 
PMCID: PMC3521604
PMID: 22914622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP007730.1.gb:   PUBMED   22914622
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Clin Microbiol. 2012 Nov;50(11):3768-72. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01892-12. Epub 2012
Sep 12.

Antimicrobial treatment and containment measures for an extremely drug-resistant 
Klebsiella pneumoniae ST101 isolate carrying pKPN101-IT, a novel fully sequenced 
bla(KPC-2) plasmid.

Frasson I(1), Lavezzo E, Franchin E, Toppo S, Barzon L, Cavallaro A, Richter SN, 
Palù G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Padua, Italy.

An extremely drug-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae isolate, sequence type ST101,
was isolated from a patient in Italy. We describe antibiotic treatment, measures 
to clear and contain the infection, and a complete sequence analysis of a novel
large plasmid, pKPN101-IT, harboring the bla(KPC-2) gene and arising from the
threatening recombination of different worldwide-distributed backbones.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01892-12 
PMCID: PMC3486238
PMID: 22972824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX283456.1.gb:   PUBMED   22972824
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2013 Jan;57(1):37-41. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01062-12.
Epub 2012 Oct 15.

KPC-4 Is encoded within a truncated Tn4401 in an IncL/M plasmid, pNE1280,
isolated from Enterobacter cloacae and Serratia marcescens.

Bryant KA(1), Van Schooneveld TC, Thapa I, Bastola D, Williams LO, Safranek TJ,
Hinrichs SH, Rupp ME, Fey PD.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pathology and Microbiology, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.

We describe the transfer of bla(KPC-4) from Enterobacter cloacae to Serratia
marcescens in a single patient. DNA sequencing revealed that KPC-4 was encoded on
an IncL/M plasmid, pNE1280, closely related to pCTX-M360. Further analysis found 
that KPC-4 was encoded within a novel Tn4401 element (Tn4401f) containing a
truncated tnpA and lacking tnpR, ISKpn7 left, and Tn4401 IRL-1, which are
conserved in other Tn4401 transposons. This study highlights the continued
evolution of Tn4401 transposons and movement to multiple plasmid backbones that
results in acquisition by multiple species of Gram-negative bacilli.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01062-12 
PMCID: PMC3535906
PMID: 23070154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JQ837276.1.gb:   PUBMED   23070154
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2013 Jan;57(1):618-20. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01712-12.
Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Complete nucleotide sequence of the first KPC-2- and SHV-12-encoding IncX
plasmid, pKpS90, from Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Kassis-Chikhani N(1), Frangeul L, Drieux L, Sengelin C, Jarlier V, Brisse S,
Arlet G, Decré D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Bactériologie, Hôpital Paul Brousse, AP-HP, Villejuif, France.

We report the complete nucleotide sequence of the pKpS90 plasmid, carrying the
bla(KPC-2) and bla(SHV-12) genes. This plasmid was isolated from a sequence type 
258 (ST258) Klebsiella pneumoniae strain responsible for an outbreak in a French 
university hospital in 2009. pKpS90 is a 53,286-bp plasmid that belongs to the
IncX incompatibility group. pKpS90 consists of a backbone from IncX plasmids, in 
which the KPC-2-encoding Tn4401 transposon and a bla(SHV-12)-encoding region have
been inserted.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01712-12 
PMCID: PMC3535902
PMID: 23089759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX461340.1.gb:   PUBMED   23089759
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2013 Jan;57(1):269-76. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01648-12.
Epub 2012 Oct 31.

Complete nucleotide sequences of blaKPC-4- and blaKPC-5-harboring IncN and IncX
plasmids from Klebsiella pneumoniae strains isolated in New Jersey.

Chen L(1), Chavda KD, Fraimow HS, Mediavilla JR, Melano RG, Jacobs MR, Bonomo RA,
Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute Center, International Center for Public
Health, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey,
USA.

Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing Enterobacteriaceae have
emerged as major nosocomial pathogens. bla(KPC), commonly located on Tn4401, is
found in Gram-negative bacterial strains, with the two most common variants,
bla(KPC-2) and bla(KPC-3), identified in plasmids with diverse genetic
backgrounds. In this study, we examined bla(KPC-4)- and bla(KPC-5)-bearing
plasmids recovered from two K. pneumoniae strains, which were isolated from a
single New Jersey hospital in 2005 and 2006, respectively. IncN plasmid pBK31551 
is 84 kb in length and harbors bla(KPC-4), bla(TEM-1), qnrB2, aac(3)-Ib,
aph(3')-I, qacF, qacEΔ1, sul1, and dfrA14, which confer resistance to β-lactams, 
quinolones, aminoglycosides, quaternary ammonium compounds, and co-trimoxazole.
The conserved regions within pBK31551 are similar to those of other IncN
plasmids. Surprisingly, analysis of the Tn4401 sequence revealed a large IS110-
and Tn6901-carrying element (8.3 kb) inserted into the istA gene, encoding
glyoxalase/bleomycin resistance, alcohol dehydrogenase, and S-formylglutathione
hydrolase. Plasmid pBK31567 is 47 kb in length and harbors bla(KPC-5), dfrA5,
qacEΔ1, and sul1. pBK31567 belongs to a novel IncX subgroup (IncX5) and possesses
a highly syntenic plasmid backbone like other IncX plasmids; however, sequence
similarity at the nucleotide level is divergent. The bla(KPC-5) gene is carried
on a Tn4401 element and differs from the genetic environment of bla(KPC-5)
described in Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain P28 from Puerto Rico. This study
underscores the genetic diversity of multidrug-resistant plasmids involved in the
spread of bla(KPC) genes and highlights the mobility and plasticity of Tn4401.
Comparative genomic analysis provides new insights into the evolution and
dissemination of KPC plasmids belonging to different incompatibility groups.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01648-12 
PMCID: PMC3535970
PMID: 23114770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX193301.1.gb:   PUBMED   23114770
JX193302.1.gb:   PUBMED   23114770
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2013 Mar;57(3):1542-5. doi: 10.1128/AAC.02332-12.
Epub 2013 Jan 7.

Complete sequence of a bla(KPC-2)-harboring IncFII(K1) plasmid from a Klebsiella 
pneumoniae sequence type 258 strain.

Chen L(1), Chavda KD, Melano RG, Jacobs MR, Levi MH, Bonomo RA, Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute Center, International Center for Public
Health, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, USA.

We report the nucleotide sequence of a novel bla(KPC-2)-harboring IncFII(K1)
plasmid, pBK32179, isolated from a carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae
ST258 strain from a New York City patient. pBK32179 is 165 kb long, consists of a
large backbone of pKPN3-like plasmid, and carries an 18.5-kb
bla(KPC-2)-containing element that is highly similar to plasmid pKpQIL.
pBK32179-like plasmids were identified in 8.3% of strains in a collection of 96
K. pneumoniae isolates from hospitals in the New York City area.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02332-12 
PMCID: PMC3591897
PMID: 23295924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX430448.1.gb:   PUBMED   23295924
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2013 Aug;68(8):1757-62. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkt094. Epub
2013 Apr 7.

Complete sequence of two KPC-harbouring plasmids from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Naas T(1), Bonnin RA, Cuzon G, Villegas MV, Nordmann P.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Bactériologie-Virologie, INSERM U914, Emerging resistance to
antibiotics, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Assistance Publique/Hôpitaux de Paris, Faculté
de Médecine et Université Paris Sud, K-Bicêtre, France. thierry.naas@bct.aphp.fr

OBJECTIVES: KPC-producing Pseudomonas aeruginosa are increasingly isolated in the
Americas and in the Caribbean islands. Here, we determined the whole-plasmid
sequence of two plasmids carrying the blaKPC-2 gene from multidrug-resistant P.
aeruginosa clinical isolates from Colombia.
METHODS: The two plasmids, pCOL-1 and pPA-2, were transferred to Escherichia coli
recipient strain TOP10 and completely sequenced using high-throughput
pyrosequencing for pCOL-1 and classical Sanger sequencing for pPA-2.
RESULTS: Both plasmids could be transferred to E. coli by transformation and
displayed no other resistance marker besides KPC. Plasmid pCOL-1 was 31 529 bp in
size, contained 31 open reading frames (ORFs) and belonged to the IncP-6 replicon
group. It exhibited genes involved in replication, mobilization and partitioning,
but none involved in conjugation. Plasmid pPA-2 was 7995 bp in size and contained
seven ORFs. It exhibited a replicase gene of IncU, but was lacking genes involved
in mobilization, partitioning and conjugation. Only 2072 bp matched Tn4401,
including the blaKPC-2 gene, part of ISKpn6 and a 73 bp segment located upstream 
of the blaKPC-2 gene, containing the P1 promoter. Sequence identity was
interrupted by a Tn3 transposon, itself interrupted by an IS26 element inserted
within the β-lactamase blaTEM-1 gene.
CONCLUSIONS: Here we present the genetic features of the very first plasmids
carrying the blaKPC-2 gene from P. aeruginosa. The emergence of the blaKPC-2 gene
on unrelated plasmids, differing in size and in incompatibility group, and
harbouring different genetic structures containing the blaKPC-2 genes in P.
aeruginosa isolates suggests that this resistance trait may follow a
dissemination scheme in P. aeruginosa similar to that seen in Enterobacteriaceae.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkt094 
PMID: 23569197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KC609322.1.gb:   PUBMED   23569197
KC609323.1.gb:   PUBMED   23569197
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2013 Jul;57(7):3427-9. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00054-13.
Epub 2013 Apr 29.

Characterization of pKP1433, a novel KPC-2-encoding plasmid from Klebsiella
pneumoniae sequence type 340.

Papagiannitsis CC(1), Miriagou V, Giakkoupi P, Tzouvelekis LS, Vatopoulos AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, National School of Public Health, Athens, Greece. 
c.papagiannitsis@gmail.com

The nucleotide sequence of pKP1433 (55,417 bp), a blaKPC-2-carrying plasmid from 
Klebsiella pneumoniae sequence type 340, was determined. pKP1433 displayed
extensive sequence and structural similarities with the IncN plasmids possessing 
the KPC-2-encoding Tn4401b isoform. However, the replication, partitioning, and
stability of pKP1433 were determined by sequences related to diverse non-IncN
plasmids.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00054-13 
PMCID: PMC3697375
PMID: 23629721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX397875.1.gb:   PUBMED   23629721
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Curr Microbiol. 2013 Oct;67(4):493-8. doi: 10.1007/s00284-013-0398-2. Epub 2013
Jun 1.

Molecular Characterization of an Atypical IncX3 Plasmid pKPC-NY79 Carrying bla
KPC-2 in a Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Ho PL(1), Cheung YY, Lo WU, Li Z, Chow KH, Lin CH, Chan JF, Cheng VC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Queen Mary Hospital and Carol Yu Centre for
Infection, The University of Hong Kong, China. plho@hkucc.hku.hk

The IncX family of plasmids has recently been expanded to include at least four
subtypes, IncX1-IncX4. The revised classification provides an opportunity for
improving our understanding of the sequence diversity of the IncX plasmids and
the resistance genes they carried. We described the complete nucleotide sequence 
of a novel IncX3 plasmid, pKPC-NY79 (42,447 bp) from a sequence-type 258
Klebsiella pneumoniae strain that was isolated from a patient who was
hospitalized in New York, United States. In pKPC-NY79, the plasmid scaffold and
genetic load region were highly similar to homologous regions in pIncX-SHV
(IncX3, JN247852) and the bla KPC carrying pKpQIL (IncFIIk, GU595196),
respectively, indicating that it has possibly arisen through recombination of
plasmids. The bla KPC-2 gene, as part of a transposon Tn4401a, was found within
the genetic load region. The backbone of pKPC-NY79 differs from pIncX-SHV by a
deletion involving the gene tandem hns-topB (encoding H-NS protein and
topoisomerase III, respectively) and a putative ATPase gene. Unexpectedly, the
impact of the hns-topB deletion on host fitness and plasmid stability was found
to be small. In conclusion, the findings contribute to a better understanding of 
the plasmid platforms carrying bla KPC and of variations in the backbone of the
IncX3 plasmids.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-013-0398-2 
PMID: 23728748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX104759.1.gb:   PUBMED   23728748
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2013 Nov;68(11):2482-6. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkt235. Epub
2013 Jun 25.

Reversion to susceptibility of a carbapenem-resistant clinical isolate of
Klebsiella pneumoniae producing KPC-3.

Villa L(1), Capone A, Fortini D, Dolejska M, Rodríguez I, Taglietti F, De Paolis 
P, Petrosillo N, Carattoli A.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: We report the case of a kidney-transplant patient, suffering an
intra-abdominal abscess at the surgical site caused by a carbapenem-resistant
ST258 Klebsiella pneumoniae clone, producing the KPC-3 carbapenemase. Under
tigecycline treatment, the patient developed a sepsis caused by a
carbapenem-susceptible ST258 K. pneumoniae strain. Complete DNA sequences of the 
plasmids carried by the resistant and susceptible strains from this patient were 
determined.
METHODS: The complete DNA sequences of plasmids were obtained by applying the 454
Genome Sequencer FLX-PLUS procedure on a library constructed of total plasmid DNA
purified from the carbapenem-resistant and -susceptible strains.
RESULTS: In the carbapenem-resistant strain, four plasmids encoding 24 resistance
genes, including blaKPC-3, and two putative virulence clusters were detected. In 
the susceptible strain, large rearrangements occurred in the KPC-carrying
plasmid, causing the deletion of the entire Tn4401::blaKPC-3 transposon, with the
consequent reversion of the strain to carbapenem susceptibility. The patient was 
successfully treated with carbapenems and fully recovered.
CONCLUSIONS: The description of the plasmid content in these two strains gives
interesting insights into the plasticity of KPC-carrying plasmids in K.
pneumoniae.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkt235 
PMID: 23800906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX442975.1.gb:   PUBMED   23800906
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2013 Dec;68(12):2779-85. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkt280. Epub
2013 Jul 16.

Effect of drug treatment options on the mobility and expression of blaKPC.

Roth AL(1), Lister PD, Hanson ND.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Research in Anti-Infectives and Biotechnology, Department of
Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Creighton University School of Medicine,
2500 California Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Both transposition and increases in gene expression have been
implicated in the success of KPC-producing pathogens, but the stimulus required
for these phenomena are unknown. It is possible that exposure to antimicrobials
during patient treatment increases bla(KPC) expression or induces Tn4401
transposition. The purpose of this study was to determine if exposure to
carbapenems or other antimicrobial drug classes could stimulate expression of
bla(KPC) or the in vitro transposition of Tn4401.
METHODS: Five KPC-producing clinical isolates were evaluated in this study. Gene 
expression of RNA from each isolate exposed to subinhibitory, MIC or
suprainhibitory levels of antibiotics was evaluated using real-time RT-PCR.
Southern blots were performed on plasmids from isolates exposed to subinhibitory 
levels of antibiotics.
RESULTS: There were subtle changes in bla(KPC) RNA expression following
antibiotic exposure that were both strain and drug dependent. Multiple plasmids
ranging from ~8 to >200 kb were observed for the Enterobacteriaceae isolates,
whereas the Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolate had one ~55 kb plasmid. No changes in 
hybridization patterns or binding intensity for the bla(KPC) probe were observed 
after antibiotic exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: While the changes in bla(KPC) RNA expression are subtle, the
different responses observed suggest both strain- and genera-specific variations 
in response to different antibiotic treatments.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkt280 
PMID: 23861308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX500679.1.gb:   PUBMED   23861308
JX500680.1.gb:   PUBMED   23861308
JX500681.1.gb:   PUBMED   23861308
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2013 Oct;57(10):5019-25. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01397-13. 
Epub 2013 Jul 29.

Complete nucleotide sequence of a blaKPC-harboring IncI2 plasmid and its
dissemination in New Jersey and New York hospitals.

Chen L(1), Chavda KD, Al Laham N, Melano RG, Jacobs MR, Bonomo RA, Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute Center, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers
University, Newark, New Jersey, USA.

Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing K. pneumoniae strains have
spread worldwide and become a significant public health threat. blaKPC, the
plasmid-borne KPC gene, was frequently identified on numerous transferable
plasmids in different incompatibility replicon groups. Here we report the
complete nucleotide sequence of a novel blaKPC-3-harboring IncI2 plasmid,
pBK15692, isolated from a multidrug-resistant K. pneumoniae ST258 strain isolated
from a New Jersey hospital in 2005. pBK15692 is 78 kb in length and carries a
backbone that is similar to those of other IncI2 plasmids (pR721, pChi7122-3,
pHN1122-1, and pSH146-65), including the genes encoding type IV pili and shufflon
regions. Comparative genomics analysis of IncI2 plasmids reveals that they
possess a conserved plasmid backbone but are divergent with respect to the
integration sites of resistance genes. In pBK15692, the blaKPC-3-harboring Tn4401
was inserted into a Tn1331 element and formed a nested transposon. A PCR scheme
was designed to detect the prevalence of IncI2 and pBK15692-like plasmids from a 
collection of clinical strains from six New Jersey and New York hospitals
isolated between 2007 and 2011. IncI2 plasmids were found in 46.2% isolates from 
318 clinical K. pneumoniae strains. Notably, 59 pBK15692-like plasmids (23%) have
been identified in 256 KPC-bearing K. pneumoniae strains, and all carried KPC-3
and belong to the epidemic ST258 clone. Our study revealed that the prevalence of
IncI2 plasmids has been considerably underestimated. Further studies are needed
to understand the distribution of this plasmid group in other health care regions
and decipher the association between IncI2 plasmids and blaKPC-3-bearing ST258
strains.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01397-13 
PMCID: PMC3811408
PMID: 23896467  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KC845573.1.gb:   PUBMED   23896467
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2014 Mar;69(3):628-31. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkt409. Epub 2013
Oct 11.

KPC-2-encoding plasmids from Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae in
Taiwan.

Chen YT(1), Lin JC, Fung CP, Lu PL, Chuang YC, Wu TL, Siu LK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Genomic Medicine, National Health Research
Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: Two plasmids carrying bla(KPC-2) isolated from carbapenem-resistant
Escherichia coli (CR-EC) and carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CR-KP), 
respectively, were completely sequenced. The CR-KP strain was selected from an
outbreak in 2012, and the CR-EC strain was the first blaKPC-2-carrying E. coli
identified in the same carbapenem resistance monitoring programme in Taiwan.
METHODS: Antimicrobial susceptibility tests, multilocus sequence typing (MLST)
and the conjugal transfer of plasmids were performed. Complete sequencing of the 
plasmids was performed using a shotgun approach.
RESULTS: The CR-EC and CR-KP strains in this study were determined to be ST410
and ST11, respectively, by MLST. From CR-EC, we identified a 145 kb conjugative
plasmid that carries bla(KPC-2), bla(CMY-2), bla(CTX-M-3) and bla(TEM-1). The
plasmid is a chimera composed of three regions related to IncI, IncN and RepFIC
replicons. From CR-KP, we identified an 86.5 kb plasmid, pKPC-LK30, which carries
bla(KPC-2) and bla(SHV-11). The plasmid is very similar to two
bla(KPC-2)-carrying IncFII(K) plasmids, but lacks one of the replication origins 
and cannot conjugate.
CONCLUSIONS: The differences in cross-species transferability of the two plasmids
can be explained by genetic differences between their backbones and could have
resulted in the confined bla(KPC-2)-carrying CR-KP outbreak in Taiwan. Plasmid
pKPC-LKEc is the first bla(KPC-2)-carrying plasmid identified from CR-EC in
Taiwan. With relatively high transferability it should be closely monitored.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkt409 
PMID: 24123430  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KC405622.1.gb:   PUBMED   24123430
KC788405.1.gb:   PUBMED   24123430
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014;58(4):2422-5. doi: 10.1128/AAC.02587-13. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Complete sequence of a KPC-producing IncN multidrug-resistant plasmid from an
epidemic Escherichia coli sequence type 131 strain in China.

Chen L(1), Hu H, Chavda KD, Zhao S, Liu R, Liang H, Zhang W, Wang X, Jacobs MR,
Bonomo RA, Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute TB Center, NJMS-Rutgers University, Newark,
New Jersey, USA.

We report here the nucleotide sequence of a novel blaKPC-2-harboring
incompatibility group N (IncN) plasmid, pECN580, from a multidrug-resistant
Escherichia coli sequence type 131 (ST131) isolate recovered from Beijing, China.
pECN580 harbors β-lactam resistance genes blaKPC-2, blaCTX-M-3, and blaTEM-1;
aminoglycoside acetyltransferase gene aac(6')-Ib-cr; quinolone resistance gene
qnrS1; rifampin resistance gene arr-3; and trimethoprim resistance gene dfrA14.
The emergence of a blaKPC-2-harboring multidrug-resistant plasmid in an epidemic 
E. coli ST131 clone poses a significant potential threat in community and
hospital settings.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02587-13 
PMCID: PMC4023777
PMID: 24395232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KF914891.1.gb:   PUBMED   24395232
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Microb Drug Resist. 2014 Aug;20(4):285-93. doi: 10.1089/mdr.2013.0074. Epub 2014 
Jan 15.

Molecular characterization of carbapenem-resistant strains of Klebsiella
pneumoniae isolated from Iranian patients: first identification of blaKPC gene in
Iran.

Nobari S(1), Shahcheraghi F, Rahmati Ghezelgeh F, Valizadeh B.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Bacteriology, Microbiology Research Center, Pasteur Institute 
of Iran , Tehran, Iran .

Multi-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae has been considered a serious global
threat. This study was initiated to investigate carbapenem resistance among K.
pneumoniae isolates in Iran and to detect carbapenemases in resistant strains.
From 2009 to 2012, 180 K. pneumoniae strains were collected from Tehran
hospitals. Of the isolates, 42 isolates (23.3%) were resistant to meropenem, 29
isolates (16.1%) were resistant to ertapenem, and 14 isolates (7.7%) were
resistant to imipenem. All of carbapenem-resistant isolates were also resistant
to the third generation of cephalosporins. modified Hodge test was positive in 25
(59.5%) of carbapenem-resistant isolates showing carbapenemase production.
bla(NDM) and bla(VIM) genes were identified in three and five
carbapenem-resistant isolates, respectively. One isolate showed presence of
bla(KPC) gene. Class 1 integrons were detected in 14 carbapenem-resistant
isolates. The most important finding about class 1 integrons was identification
of an integron containing metallo-β-lactamase gene VIM-1 that also harbored
dfrA27 and arr3 genes. It is important to note that K. pneumoniae carbapenemase
and New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase-positive isolates identified in this study
showed resistance to the majority of routine antimicrobial agents, including all 
β-lactams and other classes of antibiotics. To our knowledge, this is the first
identification of bla(KPC) and bla(VIM-1) genes among isolates of K. pneumoniae
in Iran.

DOI: 10.1089/mdr.2013.0074 
PMID: 24428238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
JX966417.1.gb:   PUBMED   24428238
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. BMC Genomics. 2014 Jan 22;15:54. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-54.

Comparative analysis of the complete genome of KPC-2-producing Klebsiella
pneumoniae Kp13 reveals remarkable genome plasticity and a wide repertoire of
virulence and resistance mechanisms.

Ramos PI, Picão RC, Almeida LG, Lima NC, Girardello R, Vivan AC, Xavier DE,
Barcellos FG, Pelisson M, Vespero EC, Médigue C, Vasconcelos AT(1), Gales AC,
Nicolás MF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório Nacional de Computação Científica, Petrópolis, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. atrv@lncc.br.

BACKGROUND: Klebsiella pneumoniae is an important opportunistic pathogen
associated with nosocomial and community-acquired infections. A wide repertoire
of virulence and antimicrobial resistance genes is present in K. pneumoniae
genomes, which can constitute extra challenges in the treatment of infections
caused by some strains. K. pneumoniae Kp13 is a multidrug-resistant strain
responsible for causing a large nosocomial outbreak in a teaching hospital
located in Southern Brazil. Kp13 produces K. pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC-2) but
is unrelated to isolates belonging to ST 258 and ST 11, the main clusters
associated with the worldwide dissemination of KPC-producing K. pneumoniae. In
this report, we perform a genomic comparison between Kp13 and each of the
following three K. pneumoniae genomes: MGH 78578, NTUH-K2044 and 342.
RESULTS: We have completely determined the genome of K. pneumoniae Kp13, which
comprises one chromosome (5.3 Mbp) and six plasmids (0.43 Mbp). Several virulence
and resistance determinants were identified in strain Kp13. Specifically, we
detected genes coding for six beta-lactamases (SHV-12, OXA-9, TEM-1, CTX-M-2,
SHV-110 and KPC-2), eight adhesin-related gene clusters, including regions coding
for types 1 (fim) and 3 (mrk) fimbrial adhesins. The rmtG plasmidial 16S rRNA
methyltransferase gene was also detected, as well as efflux pumps belonging to
five different families. Mutations upstream the OmpK35 porin-encoding gene were
evidenced, possibly affecting its expression. SNPs analysis relative to the
compared strains revealed 141 mutations falling within CDSs related to drug
resistance which could also influence the Kp13 lifestyle. Finally, the genetic
apparatus for synthesis of the yersiniabactin siderophore was identified within a
plasticity region. Chromosomal architectural analysis allowed for the detection
of 13 regions of difference in Kp13 relative to the compared strains.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the plasticity occurring at many
hierarchical levels (from whole genomic segments to individual nucleotide bases) 
may play a role on the lifestyle of K. pneumoniae Kp13 and underlie the
importance of whole-genome sequencing to study bacterial pathogens. The general
chromosomal structure was somewhat conserved among the compared bacteria, and
recombination events with consequent gain/loss of genomic segments appears to be 
driving the evolution of these strains.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-15-54 
PMCID: PMC3904158
PMID: 24450656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP003997.1.gb:   PUBMED   24450656
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014;58(4):2289-94. doi: 10.1128/AAC.02749-13. Epub 
2014 Feb 3.

Molecular survey of the dissemination of two blaKPC-harboring IncFIA plasmids in 
New Jersey and New York hospitals.

Chen L(1), Chavda KD, Melano RG, Hong T, Rojtman AD, Jacobs MR, Bonomo RA,
Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute Center, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers
University, Newark, New Jersey, USA.

Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing K. pneumoniae strains have
spread worldwide and become a major threat in health care facilities.
Transmission of blaKPC, the plasmid-borne KPC gene, can be mediated by clonal
spread and horizontal transfer. Here, we report the complete nucleotide sequences
of two novel blaKPC-3-harboring IncFIA plasmids, pBK30661 and pBK30683. pBK30661 
is 74 kb in length, with a mosaic plasmid structure; it exhibits homologies to
several other plasmids but lacks the plasmid transfer operon (tra) and the origin
of transfer (oriT) that are required for plasmid transfer. pBK30683 is a
conjugative plasmid with a cointegrated plasmid structure, comprising a 72-kb
element that highly resembles pBK30661 (>99.9% nucleotide identities) and an
extra 68-kb element that harbors tra and oriT. A PCR scheme was designed to
detect the distribution of blaKPC-harboring IncFIA (pBK30661-like and
pBK30683-like) plasmids in a collection of clinical Enterobacteriaceae isolates
from 10 hospitals in New Jersey and New York. KPC-harboring IncFIA plasmids were 
found in 20% of 491 K. pneumoniae isolates, and all carried blaKPC-3.
pBK30661-like plasmids were identified mainly in the epidemic sequence type 258
(ST258) K. pneumoniae clone, while pBK30683-like plasmids were widely distributed
in ST258 and other K. pneumoniae sequence types and among non-K. pneumoniae
Enterobacteriaceae species. This suggests that both clonal spread and horizontal 
plasmid transfer contributed to the dissemination of blaKPC-harboring IncFIA
plasmids in our area. Further studies are needed to understand the distribution
of this plasmid group in other health care regions and to decipher the origins of
pBK30661-like and pBK30683-like plasmids.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02749-13 
PMCID: PMC4023724
PMID: 24492370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KF954759.1.gb:   PUBMED   24492370
KF954760.1.gb:   PUBMED   24492370
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014 May;58(5):2961-3. doi: 10.1128/AAC.02072-13.
Epub 2014 Feb 24.

First report of KPC-2 Carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae in Japan.

Saito R(1), Takahashi R, Sawabe E, Koyano S, Takahashi Y, Shima M, Ushizawa H,
Fujie T, Tosaka N, Kato Y, Moriya K, Tohda S, Tojo N, Koike R, Kubota T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Graduate School of Health Care
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.

We investigated a novel Japanese isolate of sequence type 11 (ST11), the
Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase-2 (KPC-2)-producing K. pneumoniae strain
Kp3018, which was previously obtained from a patient treated at a Brazilian
hospital. This strain was resistant to various antibiotic classes, including
carbapenems, and harbored the gene blaKPC-2, which was present on the
transferable plasmid of ca. 190 kb, in addition to the blaCTX-M-15 gene.
Furthermore, the ca. 2.3-kb sequences (ISKpn8-blaKPC-2-ISKpn6-like), encompassing
blaKPC-2, were found to be similar to those of K. pneumoniae strains from China.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02072-13 
PMCID: PMC3993235
PMID: 24566171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
AB854326.1.gb:   PUBMED   24566171
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014 May;58(5):2958-60. doi: 10.1128/AAC.02341-13.
Epub 2014 Feb 24.

Complete nucleotide sequences of two blaKPC-2-bearing IncN Plasmids isolated from
sequence type 442 Klebsiella pneumoniae clinical strains four years apart.

Pérez-Chaparro PJ(1), Cerdeira LT, Queiroz MG, de Lima CP, Levy CE, Pavez M,
Lincopan N, Gonçalves EC, Mamizuka EM, Sampaio JL, Nunes MR, McCulloch JA.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Inovações Tecnológicas do Instituto Evandro Chagas/SVS/Ministério da
Saúde, Ananindeua, Pará, Brazil.

We sequenced the oldest blaKPC-2-bearing plasmid isolated in Brazil and another
plasmid also carried by a Klebsiella pneumoniae strain of sequence type 442
(ST442), isolated 52 months later. Both plasmids present an IncN backbone and few
acquired regions. Because the 2005 plasmid presented deletions and a truncated
gene within Tn4401b compared to the 2009 plasmid, we can thus infer that IncN
blaKPC-2-bearing plasmids pFCF1305 and pFCF3SP had a common ancestor circulating 
in Brazil prior to May 2005.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.02341-13 
PMCID: PMC3993209
PMID: 24566176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP004366.2.gb:   PUBMED   24566176
CP004367.2.gb:   PUBMED   24566176
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014 May;58(5):2871-7. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00120-14.
Epub 2014 Mar 10.

Comparative genomic analysis of KPC-encoding pKpQIL-like plasmids and their
distribution in New Jersey and New York Hospitals.

Chen L(1), Chavda KD, Melano RG, Jacobs MR, Koll B, Hong T, Rojtman AD, Levi MH, 
Bonomo RA, Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute TB Center, NJMS-Rutgers University, Newark,
New Jersey, USA.

The global spread of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC) is predominately
associated with K. pneumoniae strains genotyped as sequence type 258 (ST258). The
first ST258-associated plasmid, pKpQIL, was described in Israel in 2006, but its 
history in the northeastern United States remains unknown. Six pKpQIL-like
plasmids from four K. pneumoniae isolates (three ST258 and one ST234), one
Escherichia coli isolate, and one Enterobacter aerogenes isolate, collected from 
2003 to 2010 in New York (NY) and New Jersey (NJ) hospitals, were completely
sequenced. The sequences and overall sizes of the six plasmids are highly similar
to those of pKpQIL; the major difference is that five of six NJ/NY strains harbor
blaKPC-2, while pKpQIL contains blaKPC-3. Moreover, a 26.7-kb fragment was
inverted in pKpQIL-234 (from ST234 K. pneumoniae), while a 14.5-kb region was
deleted in pKpQIL-Ec (from ST131 E. coli). PCR screening of 284 other clinical K.
pneumoniae isolates identified 101 (35.6%) harboring pKpQIL-like plasmids from 9 
of 10 surveyed hospitals, demonstrating the wide dissemination of pKpQIL in this 
region of endemicity. Among the positive isolates, 87.1% were typed as ST258 and 
88.1% carried blaKPC-2. The finding of pKpQIL-like plasmid in this study from
strains that predate the initial report of KPC in Israel provides evidence that
pKpQIL may have originated in the United States. Our findings demonstrate that
pKpQIL plasmids are both spreading clonally in ST258 strains and spreading
horizontally to different sequence types and species, further highlighting the
clinical and public health concerns associated with carbapenem resistance.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00120-14 
PMCID: PMC3993205
PMID: 24614371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KJ146687.1.gb:   PUBMED   24614371
KJ146688.1.gb:   PUBMED   24614371
KJ146689.1.gb:   PUBMED   24614371
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Apr 1;111(13):4988-93. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1321364111. Epub 2014 Mar 17.

Molecular dissection of the evolution of carbapenem-resistant multilocus sequence
type 258 Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Deleo FR(1), Chen L, Porcella SF, Martens CA, Kobayashi SD, Porter AR, Chavda KD,
Jacobs MR, Mathema B, Olsen RJ, Bonomo RA, Musser JM, Kreiswirth BN.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Human Bacterial Pathogenesis and Research Technologies Branch,
Rocky Mountain Laboratories, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT 59840.

Infections caused by drug-resistant bacteria are a major problem worldwide.
Carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae, most notably isolates classified as
multilocus sequence type (ST) 258, have emerged as an important cause of hospital
deaths. ST258 isolates are predominantly multidrug resistant, and therefore
infections caused by them are difficult to treat. It is not known why the ST258
lineage is the most prevalent cause of multidrug-resistant K. pneumoniae
infections in the United States and other countries. Here we tested the
hypothesis that carbapenem-resistant ST258 K. pneumoniae is a single genetic
clone that has disseminated worldwide. We sequenced to closure the genomes of two
ST258 clinical isolates and used these genomes as references for comparative
genome sequencing of 83 additional clinical isolates recovered from patients at
diverse geographic locations worldwide. Phylogenetic analysis of the SNPs in the 
core genome of these isolates revealed that ST258 K. pneumoniae organisms are two
distinct genetic clades. This unexpected finding disproves the single-clone
hypothesis. Notably, genetic differentiation between the two clades results from 
an ∼ 215-kb region of divergence that includes genes involved in capsule
polysaccharide biosynthesis. The region of divergence appears to be a hotspot for
DNA recombination events, and we suggest that this region has contributed to the 
success of ST258 K. pneumoniae. Our findings will accelerate research on novel
diagnostic, therapeutic, and vaccine strategies designed to prevent and/or treat 
infections caused by multidrug resistant K. pneumoniae.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321364111 
PMCID: PMC3977278
PMID: 24639510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP006919.1.gb:   PUBMED   24639510
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014 Aug;58(8):4961-5. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00125-14.
Epub 2014 Jun 9.

Population structure of KPC-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates from
midwestern U.S. hospitals.

Wright MS(1), Perez F(2), Brinkac L(1), Jacobs MR(3), Kaye K(4), Cober E(5), van 
Duin D(6), Marshall SH(2), Hujer AM(7), Rudin SD(7), Hujer KM(7), Bonomo RA(8),
Adams MD(9).

Author information: 
(1)J. Craig Venter Institute, La Jolla, California, USA.
(2)Research Service, Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University and University
Hospitals Case Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(4)Detroit Medical Center, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(5)Infectious Diseases Department, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(6)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
North Carolina, USA.
(7)Research Service, Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(8)Research Service, Louis Stokes Cleveland Department of Veterans Affairs
Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA Department of Pharmacology, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA Department of Molecular Biology and
Microbiology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA
madams@jcvi.org Robert.Bonomo@va.gov.
(9)J. Craig Venter Institute, La Jolla, California, USA madams@jcvi.org
Robert.Bonomo@va.gov.

Genome sequencing of carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates from
regional U.S. hospitals was used to characterize strain diversity and the
bla(KPC) genetic context. A phylogeny based on core single-nucleotide variants
(SNVs) supports a division of sequence type 258 (ST258) into two distinct groups.
The primary differences between the groups are in the capsular polysaccharide
locus (cps) and their plasmid contents. A strict association between clade and
KPC variant was found. The bla(KPC) gene was found on variants of two plasmid
backbones. This study indicates that highly similar K. pneumoniae subpopulations 
coexist within the same hospitals over time.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00125-14 
PMCID: PMC4136011
PMID: 24913165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP011978.1.gb:   PUBMED   24913165
CP011981.1.gb:   PUBMED   24913165
CP011991.1.gb:   PUBMED   24913165
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2014 Nov;58(11):6974-7. doi: 10.1128/AAC.03632-14.
Epub 2014 Sep 2.

Complete sequence of a conjugative incn plasmid harboring blaKPC-2, blaSHV-12,
and qnrS1 from an Escherichia coli sequence type 648 strain.

Li JJ(1), Lee CS(2), Sheng JF(3), Doi Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of
Infectious Disease, First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(2)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA Department of Internal Medicine and Research
Institute of Clinical Medicine, Chonbuk National University Medical School and
Hospital, Jeonju, Republic of Korea.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Disease, First 
Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA yod4@pitt.edu.

We sequenced a novel conjugative blaKPC-2-harboring IncN plasmid, pYD626E, from
an Escherichia coli sequence type 648 strain previously identified in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania. pYD626E was 72,800 bp long and carried four β-lactamase genes,
blaKPC-2, blaSHV-12, blaLAP-1, and blaTEM-1. In addition, it harbored qnrS1
(fluoroquinolone resistance) and dfrA14 (trimethoprim resistance). The plasmid
profile and clinical history supported the in vivo transfer of this plasmid
between Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.03632-14 
PMCID: PMC4249370
PMID: 25182636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KJ933392.1.gb:   PUBMED   25182636
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Sci Transl Med. 2014 Sep 17;6(254):254ra126. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3009845.

Single-molecule sequencing to track plasmid diversity of hospital-associated
carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae.

Conlan S(1), Thomas PJ(2), Deming C(1), Park M(2), Lau AF(3), Dekker JP(3),
Snitkin ES(1), Clark TA(4), Luong K(4), Song Y(4), Tsai YC(4), Boitano M(4),
Dayal J(2), Brooks SY(2), Schmidt B(2), Young AC(2), Thomas JW(2), Bouffard
GG(2), Blakesley RW(2); NISC Comparative Sequencing Program, Mullikin JC(2),
Korlach J(4), Henderson DK(3), Frank KM(5), Palmore TN(5), Segre JA(6).

Author information: 
(1)National Human Genome Research Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)National Institutes of Health Intramural Sequencing Center (NISC), Bethesda,
MD 20852, USA.
(3)National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(4)Pacific Biosciences, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA.
(5)National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
karen.frank@nih.gov tpalmore@mail.nih.gov jsegre@nhgri.nih.gov.
(6)National Human Genome Research Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
karen.frank@nih.gov tpalmore@mail.nih.gov jsegre@nhgri.nih.gov.

Comment in
    Science. 2014 Sep 19;345(6203):1454-5.

Public health officials have raised concerns that plasmid transfer between
Enterobacteriaceae species may spread resistance to carbapenems, an antibiotic
class of last resort, thereby rendering common health care-associated infections 
nearly impossible to treat. To determine the diversity of carbapenemase-encoding 
plasmids and assess their mobility among bacterial species, we performed
comprehensive surveillance and genomic sequencing of carbapenem-resistant
Enterobacteriaceae in the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center
patient population and hospital environment. We isolated a repertoire of
carbapenemase-encoding Enterobacteriaceae, including multiple strains of
Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Escherichia coli, Enterobacter
cloacae, Citrobacter freundii, and Pantoea species. Long-read genome sequencing
with full end-to-end assembly revealed that these organisms carry the carbapenem 
resistance genes on a wide array of plasmids. K. pneumoniae and E. cloacae
isolated simultaneously from a single patient harbored two different
carbapenemase-encoding plasmids, indicating that plasmid transfer between
organisms was unlikely within this patient. We did, however, find evidence of
horizontal transfer of carbapenemase-encoding plasmids between K. pneumoniae, E. 
cloacae, and C. freundii in the hospital environment. Our data, including full
plasmid identification, challenge assumptions about horizontal gene transfer
events within patients and identify possible connections between patients and the
hospital environment. In addition, we identified a new carbapenemase-encoding
plasmid of potentially high clinical impact carried by K. pneumoniae, E. coli, E.
cloacae, and Pantoea species, in unrelated patients and in the hospital
environment.

Copyright © 2014, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3009845 
PMCID: PMC4203314
PMID: 25232178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP009773.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
CP009776.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
CP009853.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
CP009862.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
CP009864.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
CP009867.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
CP009881.1.gb:   PUBMED   25232178
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Jan;59(1):338-43. doi: 10.1128/AAC.03061-14.
Epub 2014 Nov 3.

First report of a clinical, multidrug-resistant Enterobacteriaceae isolate
coharboring fosfomycin resistance gene fosA3 and carbapenemase gene blaKPC-2 on
the same transposon, Tn1721.

Li G(1), Zhang Y(2), Bi D(3), Shen P(2), Ai F(2), Liu H(2), Tian Y(2), Ma Y(2),
Wang B(2), Rajakumar K(4), Ou HY(5), Jiang X(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Jinshan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China Department of Laboratory Medicine, Huashan
Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory for Microbial Metabolism and School of Life Sciences &
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Leicester,
Leicester, United Kingdom Department of Clinical Microbiology, University
Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, United Kingdom.
(5)State Key Laboratory for Microbial Metabolism and School of Life Sciences &
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China
jiangxi2154@aliyun.com hyou@sjtu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College,
Fudan University, Shanghai, China jiangxi2154@aliyun.com hyou@sjtu.edu.cn.

In order to understand the genetic background and dissemination mechanism of
carbapenem resistance and fosfomycin resistance in Enterobacteriaceae isolates,
we studied a clinical Escherichia coli strain HS102707 isolate and an
Enterobacter aerogenes strain HS112625 isolate, both of which were resistant to
carbapenem and fosfomycin and positive for the bla(KPC-2) and fosA3 genes. In
addition, a clinical Klebsiella pneumoniae strain HS092839 isolate which was
resistant to carbapenem was also studied. A 70-kb plasmid was successfully
transferred to recipient E. coli J53 by a conjugation test. PCR and Southern blot
analysis showed that bla(KPC-2) was located on this plasmid. The complete
sequence of pHS102707 showed that this plasmid belongs to the P11 subfamily
(IncP1) and has a replication gene, several plasmid-stable genes, an intact type 
IV secretion system gene cluster, and a composite transposon Tn1721-Tn3 that
harbored bla(KPC-2). Interestingly, a composite IS26 transposon carrying fosA3
was inserted in the Tn1721-tnpA gene in pHS102707 and pHS112625, leading to the
disruption of Tn1721-tnpA and the deletion of Tn1721-tnpR. However, only IS26
with a truncated Tn21-tnpR was inserted in pHS092839 at the same position. To our
knowledge, this is the first report of fosA3 and bla(KPC-2) colocated in the same
Tn1721-Tn3-like composite transposon on a novel IncP group plasmid.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.03061-14 
PMCID: PMC4291370
PMID: 25367902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KF701335.1.gb:   PUBMED   25367902
KF724506.1.gb:   PUBMED   25367902
KJ210592.1.gb:   PUBMED   25367902
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2015 Jan;45(1):66-70. doi:
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2014.08.010. Epub 2014 Oct 2.

Dissemination of a clone carrying a fosA3-harbouring plasmid mediates high
fosfomycin resistance rate of KPC-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae in China.

Jiang Y(1), Shen P(2), Wei Z(2), Liu L(1), He F(1), Shi K(1), Wang Y(1), Wang
H(1), Yu Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310016, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, First
Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang
310003, China.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, College of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310016, China. Electronic
address: yvys119@163.com.

Fosfomycin has been proposed as an adjunct to other active agents for treating
KPC-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae infections. This study aimed to investigate
the prevalence of fosfomycin resistance and plasmid-mediated resistance
determinants among KPC-producing K. pneumoniae isolates from clinical samples in 
China. In total, 278 KPC-producing and 80 extended-spectrum β-lactamase
(ESBL)-producing (non-KPC-producing) clinical K. pneumoniae isolates were
collected in 12 hospitals from 2010 to 2013. Fosfomycin susceptibility testing
was carried out using the agar dilution method. Phylogenetic clonal patterns were
revealed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). Isolates were screened for
plasmid-mediated fosfomycin resistance genes (fosA, fosA3 and fosC2) by PCR
amplification. A plasmid was completely sequenced by next-generation sequencing. 
The fosfomycin resistance rate in KPC-producers (60.8%; 169/278) was
significantly higher than in ESBL-producers (12.5%; 10/80). In addition, 94
KPC-producing isolates were positive for fosA3 and most of them were clonally
related. A 23939-bp plasmid (pFOS18) co-harbouring fosA3 and bla(KPC-2) was
completely sequenced, revealing that the fosA3 gene was flanked by two copies of 
IS26; however, bla(KPC-2) was located on a Tn3-Tn4401 integration structure.
Although the fosA3 and blaKPC-2 genes are located on different transposon
systems, they are able to spread together worldwide through plasmid transfer.
Dissemination of the clone carrying the fosA3-harbouring plasmid mediates the
high fosfomycin resistance rate of KPC-producing K. pneumoniae in China.
Fosfomycin as an alternative option for treating infections caused by
KPC-producing K. pneumoniae should not be recommended in hospitals in which
fosfomycin-resistant clonal dissemination is emerging.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. and the International Society of Chemotherapy. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2014.08.010 
PMID: 25450805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KJ653815.1.gb:   PUBMED   25450805
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Mar;59(3):1656-63. doi: 10.1128/AAC.04292-14.
Epub 2015 Jan 5.

Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing K. pneumoniae at a single
institution: insights into endemicity from whole-genome sequencing.

Mathers AJ(1), Stoesser N(2), Sheppard AE(2), Pankhurst L(2), Giess A(2), Yeh
AJ(3), Didelot X(4), Turner SD(5), Sebra R(6), Kasarskis A(6), Peto T(2), Crook
D(7), Sifri CD(8).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Health, Department of
Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA
Clinical Microbiology, Department of Pathology, University of Virginia Health
System, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA ajm5b@virginia.edu.
(2)Modernizing Medical Microbiology Consortium, Nuffield Department of Clinical
Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Health, Department of
Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(4)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(6)Icahn Institute and Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School 
of Medicine, Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(7)Modernizing Medical Microbiology Consortium, Nuffield Department of Clinical
Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom
Public Health England, Microbiology Services, London, United Kingdom.
(8)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Health, Department of
Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA
Office of Hospital Epidemiology, University of Virginia Health System,
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.

The global emergence of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase-producing K.
pneumoniae (KPC-Kp) multilocus sequence type ST258 is widely recognized. Less is 
known about the molecular and epidemiological details of non-ST258 K. pneumoniae 
in the setting of an outbreak mediated by an endemic plasmid. We describe the
interplay of blaKPC plasmids and K. pneumoniae strains and their relationship to 
the location of acquisition in a U.S. health care institution. Whole-genome
sequencing (WGS) analysis was applied to KPC-Kp clinical isolates collected from 
a single institution over 5 years following the introduction of blaKPC in August 
2007, as well as two plasmid transformants. KPC-Kp from 37 patients yielded 16
distinct sequence types (STs). Two novel conjugative blaKPC plasmids (pKPC_UVA01 
and pKPC_UVA02), carried by the hospital index case, accounted for the presence
of blaKPC in 21/37 (57%) subsequent cases. Thirteen (35%) isolates represented an
emergent lineage, ST941, which contained pKPC_UVA01 in 5/13 (38%) and pKPC_UVA02 
in 6/13 (46%) cases. Seven (19%) isolates were the epidemic KPC-Kp strain, ST258,
mostly imported from elsewhere and not carrying pKPC_UVA01 or pKPC_UVA02. Using
WGS-based analysis of clinical isolates and plasmid transformants, we demonstrate
the unexpected dispersal of blaKPC to many non-ST258 lineages in a hospital
through spread of at least two novel blaKPC plasmids. In contrast, ST258 KPC-Kp
was imported into the institution on numerous occasions, with other blaKPC
plasmid vectors and without sustained transmission. Instead, a newly recognized
KPC-Kp strain, ST941, became associated with both novel blaKPC plasmids and
spread locally, making it a future candidate for clinical persistence and
dissemination.

Copyright © 2015, Mathers et al.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.04292-14 
PMCID: PMC4325807
PMID: 25561339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP009465.1.gb:   PUBMED   25561339
CP009466.1.gb:   PUBMED   25561339
CP017929.1.gb:   PUBMED   25561339
CP017937.1.gb:   PUBMED   25561339
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015 May;70(5):1592-3. doi: 10.1093/jac/dku576. Epub 2015
Jan 20.

Characterization of KPC-type carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae
strains isolated in the Arabian Peninsula.

Sonnevend Á(1), Ghazawi A(1), Darwish D(1), AlDeesi Z(2), Kadhum AF(2), Pál T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Rashid Hospital, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates
tpal@uaeu.ac.ae.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dku576 
PMID: 25608586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KM983022.1.gb:   PUBMED   25608586
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 May;59(5):2956-9. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00041-15.
Epub 2015 Mar 9.

Complete sequence of a bla(KPC)-harboring cointegrate plasmid isolated from
Escherichia coli.

Chavda KD(1), Chen L(1), Jacobs MR(2), Rojtman AD(3), Bonomo RA(4), Kreiswirth
BN(5).

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute Center, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers
University, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Cleveland, 
Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Jersey Shore University Medical Center, Neptune, New 
Jersey, USA.
(4)Research Service, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio,
USA Departments of Medicine, Pharmacology, Molecular Biology and Microbiology,
Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(5)Public Health Research Institute Center, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers
University, Newark, New Jersey, USA kreiswba@njms.rutgers.edu.

Horizontal transfer of bla(KPC)-harboring plasmids contributes significantly to
the inter- and intraspecies spread of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC). 
Here we report the complete nucleotide sequence of a bla(KPC)-harboring IncFIA
plasmid, pBK32533, from Escherichia coli. pBK32533 is a cointegrate plasmid
comprising of a 72-kb sequence identical to that of the nonconjugative pBK30661
plasmid plus an additional 170-kb element that harbors the genes for plasmid
transfer. pBK32533 demonstrates how bla(KPC) can be spread from a nonconjugative 
plasmid through cointegration.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00041-15 
PMCID: PMC4394832
PMID: 25753632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KP345882.1.gb:   PUBMED   25753632
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Genome Announc. 2015 Apr 9;3(2). pii: e00272-15. doi: 10.1128/genomeA.00272-15.

Complete Genome Sequence of a Carbapenem-Resistant Extraintestinal Pathogenic
Escherichia coli Strain Belonging to the Sequence Type 131 H30R Subclade.

Johnson TJ(1), Hargreaves M(2), Shaw K(2), Snippes P(2), Lynfield R(2), Aziz M,
Price LB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, University of Minnesota, St.
Paul, Minnesota, USA joh04207@umn.edu.
(2)Minnesota Department of Health, St. Paul, Minnesota, USA.

Here, we report the completed genome sequence of a carbapenem-resistant
extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli sequence type 131 (ST131) isolate,
MNCRE44. The isolate was obtained in 2012 in Minnesota, USA, from a sputum sample
from a hospitalized patient with multiple comorbidities, and it belongs to the
H30R sublineage.

Copyright © 2015 Johnson et al.

DOI: 10.1128/genomeA.00272-15 
PMCID: PMC4392156
PMID: 25858844 

 
####FOUND IN####
CP010881.1.gb:   PUBMED   25858844
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Sep;59(9):5226-31. doi: 10.1128/AAC.04543-14.
Epub 2015 Jun 15.

pKBuS13, a KPC-2-encoding plasmid from Klebsiella pneumoniae sequence type 833,
carrying Tn4401b inserted into an Xer site-specific recombination locus.

Garbari L(1), Busetti M(2), Dolzani L(1), Petix V(2), Knezevich A(3), Bressan
R(1), Gionechetti F(1), Tonin EA(1), Lagatolla C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.
(2)Institute for Maternal and Child Health IRCCS Burlo Garofolo, Trieste, Italy.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Microbiology CS, Azienda
Ospedaliero-Universitaria Ospedali Riuniti, Trieste, Italy.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy
clagatolla@units.it.

Here, we report the first detection of a Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase 2
(KPC-2)-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae strain belonging to sequence type 833
(ST833), collected in an Italian hospital from a patient coming from South
America. Its bla KPC determinant was carried by a ColE1 plasmid, pKBuS13, that
showed the Tn4401b::bla KPC-2 transposon inserted into the regulatory region of
an Xer site-specific recombination locus. This interfered with the correct
resolution of plasmid multimers into monomers, lowering plasmid stability and
leading to overestimation of the number of plasmids harbored by a single host
cell. Sequencing of the fragments adjacent to Tn4401b detected a region that did 
not have significant matches in databases other than the genome of a
carbapenem-resistant Escherichia coli strain collected during the same year at a 
hospital in Boston. This is interesting in an epidemiologic context, as it
suggests that despite the absence of tra genes and the instability under
nonselective conditions, the circulation of pKBuS13 or of analogous plasmids
might be wider than reported.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.04543-14 
PMCID: PMC4538545
PMID: 26077252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KM076934.1.gb:   PUBMED   26077252
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Oct;59(10):6625-8. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01275-15.
Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Characterization of an Enterobacter cloacae Strain Producing both KPC and NDM
Carbapenemases by Whole-Genome Sequencing.

Wu W(1), Feng Y(1), Carattoli A(2), Zong Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Infectious Diseases, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Infectious, Parasitic and Immune-Mediated Diseases, Istituto
Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(3)Center of Infectious Diseases, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
Chengdu, China zongzhiy@scu.edu.cn.

A carbapenem-resistant Enterobacter cloacae strain, WCHECl-14653, causing a fatal
bloodstream infection, was characterized by genome sequencing and conjugation
experiments. The strain carried two carbapenemase genes, blaNDM-1 and blaKPC-2,
on separate IncF plasmids. The coexistence of blaNDM-1 and blaKPC-2 conferred
slightly higher-level carbapenem resistance compared with that of blaNDM-1 or
blaKPC-2 alone, and the coexistence of two IncF plasmids may generate new
platforms for spreading carbapenemase genes.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01275-15 
PMCID: PMC4576032
PMID: 26248381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KP868646.1.gb:   PUBMED   26248381
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2015 Nov;70(11):2987-91. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkv232. Epub
2015 Aug 9.

Coexistence of a novel KPC-2-encoding MDR plasmid and an NDM-1-encoding
pNDM-HN380-like plasmid in a clinical isolate of Citrobacter freundii.

Feng J(1), Qiu Y(2), Yin Z(3), Chen W(4), Yang H(3), Yang W(3), Wang J(3), Gao
Y(5), Zhou D(6).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology, Beijing 100071, China College of Veterinary
Medicine, Jilin University, Changchun 130062, China Laboratory Animal Center,
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 100071, China.
(2)Laboratory Animal Center, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing
100071, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology, Beijing 100071, China.
(4)Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100029,
China.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Jilin University, Changchun 130062, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology, Beijing 100071, China dongshengzhou1977@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to characterize the molecular
mechanism of coproduction of KPC-2 and NDM-1 in Citrobacter freundii.
METHODS: C. freundii strain 112298 was isolated from a human case of septic shock
in a Chinese teaching hospital. The major carbapenemase and ESBL genes were
detected by PCR. The MIC values were determined by using VITEK 2 and
antimicrobial susceptibility was judged by CLSI standards. The resistance plasmid
was transferred into Escherichia coli by electroporation, followed by plasmid DNA
isolation from the electroporant, and then fully sequenced and compared with
closely related plasmids.
RESULTS: Strain 112298 produces KPC-2 and NDM-1, encoded by the novel
non-typeable plasmid p112298-KPC and an IncX3-type plasmid p112298-NDM,
respectively. In p112298-KPC, a Tn1722-based blaKPC-2-carrying transposon is
associated with several additional resistance modules, constituting a single MDR 
region. Assembly of these resistance modules is likely mediated by homologous
recombination between five copies of IS26 elements at different sites within the 
MDR region. p112298-NDM is a very close relation of pNDM-HN380. blaNDM-1 in
p112298-NDM is carried by a Tn125 variant, which differs from the prototype Tn125
as observed in pNDM-BJ01 by disruption of an upstream copy of ISAba125 by IS5 and
absence of a downstream copy of ISAba125.
CONCLUSIONS: Production of KPC-2 and NDM-1 by p112298-KPC and p112298-NDM,
respectively, makes C. freundii 112298 highly resistant to carbapenems and,
moreover, these two plasmids still harbour genes for resistance to
cephalosporins, chloramphenicol, chromate, fosfomycin, quaternary ammonium,
rifampicin and sulphonamides.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkv232 
PMID: 26260129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KP987215.1.gb:   PUBMED   26260129
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Front Microbiol. 2015 Aug 19;6:838. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2015.00838. eCollection
2015.

Complete sequences of KPC-2-encoding plasmid p628-KPC and CTX-M-55-encoding
p628-CTXM coexisted in Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Wang L(1), Fang H(2), Feng J(2), Yin Z(2), Xie X(3), Zhu X(3), Wang J(2), Chen
W(4), Yang R(1), Du H(3), Zhou D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The First Hospital Affiliated to Henan
University Kaifeng, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University Suzhou, China.
(4)Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing, China.

A carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae strain 628 was isolated from a human
case of intracranial infection in a Chinese teaching hospital. Strain 628
produces KPC-2 and CTX-M-55 encoded by two different conjugative plasmids, i.e., 
the IncFIIK plasmid p628-KPC and the IncI1 plasmid p628-CTXM respectively. bla
KPC-2 is captured by a Tn1722-based unit transposon with a linear structure.
ΔTn3-ISKpn27-bla KPC-2-ΔISKpn6-ΔTn1722 and this transposon together with a
mercury resistance (mer) gene locus constitutes a 34 kb acquired drug-resistance 
region. bla KPC-2 has two transcription starts (nucleotides G and C located at 39
and 250 bp upstream of its coding region respectively) which correspond to two
promoters, i.e., the intrinsic P1 and the upstream ISKpn27/Tn3-provided P2 with
the core -35/-10 elements TAATCC/TTACAT and TTGACA/AATAAT respectively. bla
CTX-M-55 is mobilized in an ISEcp1-bla CTX-M-55-Δorf477 transposition unit and
appears to be the sole drug-resistant determinant in p628-CTXM. bla CTX-M-55
possesses a single transcription start (nucleotides G located at 116 bp upstream 
of its coding region) corresponding to the ISEcp1-provided P1 promoter with the
core -35/-10 element TTGAAA/TACAAT. All the above detected promoters display a
characteristic of constitutive expression. Coexistence of bla KPC and bla CTX-M
in K. pneumoniae has been reported many times but this is the first report to
gain deep insights into genetic platforms, promoters, and expression of the two
coexisting bla genes with determination of entire nucleotide sequences of the two
corresponding plasmids.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2015.00838 
PMCID: PMC4541600
PMID: 26347725 

 
####FOUND IN####
KP987218.1.gb:   PUBMED   26347725
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2015 Dec;59(12):7723-34. doi: 10.1128/AAC.01291-15. 
Epub 2015 Oct 5.

Clonal Dissemination of Enterobacter cloacae Harboring blaKPC-3 in the Upper
Midwestern United States.

Hargreaves ML(1), Shaw KM(1), Dobbins G(1), Snippes Vagnone PM(1), Harper JE(1), 
Boxrud D(1), Lynfield R(1), Aziz M(2), Price LB(2), Silverstein KA(3), Danzeisen 
JL(4), Youmans B(4), Case K(4), Sreevatsan S(5), Johnson TJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Minnesota Department of Health, St. Paul, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Division of Pathogen Genomics, the Translational Genomics Research Institute, 
Flagstaff, Arizona, USA Department of Occupational and Environmental Health,
George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(3)Minnesota Supercomputing Institute, University of Minnesota, St. Paul,
Minnesota, USA.
(4)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, University of Minnesota, St.
Paul, Minnesota, USA.
(5)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, University of Minnesota, St.
Paul, Minnesota, USA Department of Veterinary Population Medicine, University of 
Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota, USA.
(6)Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, University of Minnesota, St.
Paul, Minnesota, USA joh04207@umn.edu.

Carbapenemase-producing, carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, or CP-CRE, are 
an emerging threat to human and animal health, because they are resistant to many
of the last-line antimicrobials available for disease treatment.
Carbapenemase-producing Enterobacter cloacae harboring blaKPC-3 recently was
reported in the upper midwestern United States and implicated in a hospital
outbreak in Fargo, North Dakota (L. M. Kiedrowski, D. M. Guerrero, F. Perez, R.
A. Viau, L. J. Rojas, M. F. Mojica, S. D. Rudin, A. M. Hujer, S. H. Marshall, and
R. A. Bonomo, Emerg Infect Dis 20:1583-1585, 2014,
http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid2009.140344). In early 2009, the Minnesota
Department of Health began collecting and screening CP-CRE from patients
throughout Minnesota. Here, we analyzed a retrospective group of CP-E. cloacae
isolates (n = 34) collected between 2009 and 2013. Whole-genome sequencing and
analysis revealed that 32 of the strains were clonal, belonging to the ST171
clonal complex and differing collectively by 211 single-nucleotide polymorphisms,
and it revealed a dynamic clone under positive selection. The phylogeography of
these strains suggests that this clone existed in eastern North Dakota and
western Minnesota prior to 2009 and subsequently was identified in the
Minneapolis and St. Paul metropolitan area. All strains harbored identical
IncFIA-like plasmids conferring a CP-CRE phenotype and an additional IncX3
plasmid. In a single patient with multiple isolates submitted over several
months, we found evidence that these plasmids had transferred from the E. cloacae
clone to an Escherichia coli ST131 bacterium, rendering it as a CP-CRE. The
spread of this clone throughout the upper midwestern United States is
unprecedented for E. cloacae and highlights the importance of continued
surveillance to identify such threats to human health.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.01291-15 
PMCID: PMC4649179
PMID: 26438492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP010881.1.gb:   PUBMED   26438492
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2016 Feb;71(2):344-7. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkv356. Epub 2015 
Oct 30.

Lateral dissemination and inter-patient transmission of blaKPC-3: role of a
conjugative plasmid in spreading carbapenem resistance.

Tijet N(1), Muller MP(2), Matukas LM(3), Khan A(4), Patel SN(5), Melano RG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Ontario Laboratories, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Infection Prevention and Control, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada Division of Microbiology, St Michael's Hospital,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Infection Prevention and Control, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.
(5)Public Health Ontario Laboratories, Toronto, Ontario, Canada Department of
Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.
(6)Public Health Ontario Laboratories, Toronto, Ontario, Canada Department of
Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,
Canada Department of Microbiology, Mt Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
roberto.melano@oahpp.ca.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to describe the nosocomial spread of 
carbapenemase-producing enterobacteria and characterize a plasmid involved in KPC
dissemination.
METHODS: Two Klebsiella pneumoniae, one Escherichia coli and one Citrobacter
freundii isolated from two patients were studied. Susceptibility profiles were
obtained using Etest. Carbapenemase activity was detected using the Carba NP
test. β-Lactamase gene content was screened by PCR and sequencing. K. pneumoniae 
isolates were genotyped by MLST and PFGE. KPC plasmid sizes were estimated by
S1-DNA digestion and PFGE-Southern blot. Plasmids were sequenced using Illumina's
technology and Sanger sequencing.
RESULTS: Two patients sharing a room on a surgical unit were positive for
carbapenemase-producing K. pneumoniae. One patient was also colonized with
carbapenemase-producing C. freundii and E. coli. Neither patient had known risk
factors for carbapenemase acquisition, although one patient had recent surgery at
another Toronto hospital; the other patient's husband had surgery in New York
City 3 years prior to her presentation. An extensive investigation was conducted 
at both hospitals, but no additional cases were identified. blaKPC-3 was detected
in all clinical isolates. Variable carbapenem resistance levels were observed.
Both K. pneumoniae belonged to the same clone by PFGE and MLST (ST277). pKPC-SMH 
(∼ 53 kb) was identified in all the clinical isolates, showing identity only with
structurally similar IncN plasmids.
CONCLUSIONS: We describe intra- and inter-patient dissemination of blaKPC. The
involvement of a clone related to the successful K. pneumoniae ST258 and the
blaKPC-3 gene detected in an active Tn4401 transposon carried on a conjugative
broad-host-range plasmid increased the potential for this horizontal
transmission.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkv356 
PMID: 26518052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KT148595.1.gb:   PUBMED   26518052
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. PLoS One. 2015 Dec 4;10(12):e0144310. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144310.
eCollection 2015.

Genomic Epidemiology of an Endoscope-Associated Outbreak of Klebsiella pneumoniae
Carbapenemase (KPC)-Producing K. pneumoniae.

Marsh JW(1), Krauland MG(1)(2), Nelson JS(1), Schlackman JL(1), Brooks AM(1),
Pasculle AW(3), Shutt KA(1), Doi Y(4), Querry AM(5), Muto CA(1)(5), Harrison
LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases Epidemiology Research Unit, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine and Graduate School of Public Health, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(2)Public Health Dynamics Laboratory, University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of
Public Health, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(3)Division of Microbiology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(5)Division of Hospital Epidemiology and Infection Control, University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.

Increased incidence of infections due to Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase
(KPC)-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae (KPC-Kp) was noted among patients
undergoing endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) at a single
hospital. An epidemiologic investigation identified KPC-Kp and non-KPC-producing,
extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Kp in cultures from 2 endoscopes. 
Genotyping was performed on patient and endoscope isolates to characterize the
microbial genomics of the outbreak. Genetic similarity of 51 Kp isolates from 37 
patients and 3 endoscopes was assessed by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
and multi-locus sequence typing (MLST). Five patient and 2 endoscope isolates
underwent whole genome sequencing (WGS). Two KPC-encoding plasmids were
characterized by single molecule, real-time sequencing. Plasmid diversity was
assessed by endonuclease digestion. Genomic and epidemiologic data were used in
conjunction to investigate the outbreak source. Two clusters of Kp patient
isolates were genetically related to endoscope isolates by PFGE. A subset of
patient isolates were collected post-ERCP, suggesting ERCP endoscopes as a
possible source. A phylogeny of 7 Kp genomes from patient and endoscope isolates 
supported ERCP as a potential source of transmission. Differences in gene content
defined 5 ST258 subclades and identified 2 of the subclades as
outbreak-associated. A novel KPC-encoding plasmid, pKp28 helped define and track 
one endoscope-associated ST258 subclade. WGS demonstrated high genetic
relatedness of patient and ERCP endoscope isolates suggesting ERCP-associated
transmission of ST258 KPC-Kp. Gene and plasmid content discriminated the outbreak
from endemic ST258 populations and assisted with the molecular epidemiologic
investigation of an extended KPC-Kp outbreak.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0144310 
PMCID: PMC4670079
PMID: 26637170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP011999.1.gb:   PUBMED   26637170
CP012000.1.gb:   PUBMED   26637170
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2016 Mar 25;60(4):2519-23. doi:
10.1128/AAC.03053-15. Print 2016 Apr.

Genomic Characterization of Enterobacter cloacae Isolates from China That
Coproduce KPC-3 and NDM-1 Carbapenemases.

Du H(1), Chen L(2), Chavda KD(2), Pandey R(2), Zhang H(3), Xie X(3), Tang YW(4), 
Kreiswirth BN(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China Public Health Research
Institute Tuberculosis Center, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers University,
Newark, New Jersey, USA kreiswba@njms.rutgers.edu hong_du@126.com.
(2)Public Health Research Institute Tuberculosis Center, New Jersey Medical
School, Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York, USA.
(5)Public Health Research Institute Tuberculosis Center, New Jersey Medical
School, Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey, USA kreiswba@njms.rutgers.edu
hong_du@126.com.

Here, we report twoEnterobacter cloacaesequence type 231 isolates coproducing
KPC-3 and NDM-1 that have caused lethal infections in a tertiary hospital in
China. TheblaNDM-1-harboring plasmids carry IncA/C2and IncR replicons, showing a 
mosaic plasmid structure, and theblaNDM-1is harbored on a novel class I
integron-like element.blaKPC-3is located on a
Tn3-ΔblaTEM-1-blaKPC-3-ΔTn1722element, flanked by two 9-bp direct-repeat
sequences and harbored on an IncX6 plasmid.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.03053-15 
PMCID: PMC4808189
PMID: 26787700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KU302800.1.gb:   PUBMED   26787700
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Genome Announc. 2016 Jan 28;4(1). pii: e01649-15. doi: 10.1128/genomeA.01649-15.

Complete Genome Sequence of KPC-Producing Klebsiella pneumoniae Strain CAV1193.

Sheppard AE(1), Stoesser N(2), Sebra R(3), Kasarskis A(3), Deikus G(3), Anson
L(2), Walker AS(2), Peto TE(2), Crook DW(2), Mathers AJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Modernizing Medical Microbiology Consortium, Nuffield Department of Clinical
Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom
anna.sheppard@ndm.ox.ac.uk ajm5b@virginia.edu.
(2)Modernizing Medical Microbiology Consortium, Nuffield Department of Clinical
Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(3)Icahn Institute and Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School 
of Medicine, Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Health, Department of
Medicine, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA
Clinical Microbiology, Department of Pathology, University of Virginia Health
System, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA anna.sheppard@ndm.ox.ac.uk
ajm5b@virginia.edu.

Carbapenem resistance in Klebsiella pneumoniae, frequently conferred by the
blaKPC gene, is a major public health threat. We sequenced a blaKPC-containing
strain of K. pneumoniae belonging to the emergent lineage ST941, in order to
better understand the evolution of blaKPC within this species.

Copyright © 2016 Sheppard et al.

DOI: 10.1128/genomeA.01649-15 
PMCID: PMC4732343
PMID: 26823590 

 
####FOUND IN####
CP013325.1.gb:   PUBMED   26823590
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Clin Microbiol. 2016 Apr;54(4):1167-70. doi: 10.1128/JCM.03229-15. Epub 2016
Feb 17.

Detection and Whole-Genome Sequencing of Carbapenemase-Producing Aeromonas
hydrophila Isolates from Routine Perirectal Surveillance Culture.

Hughes HY(1), Conlan SP(2), Lau AF(3), Dekker JP(3), Michelin AV(3), Youn JH(3), 
Henderson DK(3), Frank KM(3), Segre JA(2), Palmore TN(4).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(2)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(3)National Institutes of Health Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.
(4)National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA National Institutes of Health Clinical Center,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA tpalmore@mail.nih.gov.

Perirectal surveillance cultures and a stool culture grew Aeromonas species from 
three patients over a 6-week period and were without epidemiological links.
Detection of the blaKPC-2 gene in one isolate prompted inclusion of
non-Enterobacteriaceae in our surveillance culture workup. Whole-genome
sequencing confirmed that the isolates were unrelated and provided data for
Aeromonas reference genomes.

Copyright © 2016, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.03229-15 
PMCID: PMC4809936
PMID: 26888898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP016381.1.gb:   PUBMED   26888898
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Front Microbiol. 2016 Mar 10;7:310. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00310. eCollection
2016.

The IncP-6 Plasmid p10265-KPC from Pseudomonas aeruginosa Carries a Novel
ΔISEc33-Associated bla KPC-2 Gene Cluster.

Dai X(1), Zhou D(2), Xiong W(1), Feng J(2), Luo W(3), Luo G(1), Wang H(1), Sun
F(4), Zhou X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pulmonology, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical
University Chongqing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology Beijing, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and EpidemiologyBeijing, China; Department of Pharmacy, Southwest
Hospital, Third Military Medical UniversityChongqing, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical University 
Chongqing, China.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain 10265 was recovered from a patient with pneumonia
in a Chinese public hospital, and it displays the carbapenem resistance phenotype
due to the acquisition of a non-conjugative but mobilizable IncP-6-type plasmid
p10265-KPC. p10265-KPC carries a Tn5563-borne defective mer locus, and a novel
ΔISEc33-associated bla KPC-2 gene cluster without paired inverted repeats and
paired direct repeats at both ends. Mobilization of this ΔISEc33-associated
element in p10265-KPC would be attributed to homologous recombination-based
insertion of a foreign structure Tn3-ISApu1-orf7-ISApu2- ISKpn27-Δbla TEM-1 -bla 
KPC-2 -ΔISKpn6- korC-orf6-klcA-ΔrepB into a pre-existent intact ISEc33, making
ISEc33 truncated at the 3' end. The previously reported pCOL-1 represents the
first sequenced KPC-producing IncP-6 plasmid, while p10265-KPC is the second one.
These two plasmids carry two distinct bla KPC-2 gene clusters, which are inserted
into the different sites of the IncP-6 backbone and have different evolutionary
histories of assembly and mobilization. This is the first report of
identification of the IncP-6-type resistance plasmid in China.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00310 
PMCID: PMC4785139
PMID: 27014233 

 
####FOUND IN####
KU578314.1.gb:   PUBMED   27014233
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2016 Oct;71(10):2824-30. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkw227. Epub
2016 Jun 21.

Characterization of KPC-encoding plasmids from two endemic settings, Greece and
Italy.

Papagiannitsis CC(1), Di Pilato V(2), Giani T(3), Giakkoupi P(4), Riccobono E(5),
Landini G(3), Miriagou V(6), Vatopoulos AC(7), Rossolini GM(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, National School of Public Health, Athens, Greece
Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital in Plzen,
Charles University in Prague, Plzen, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy
Department of Surgery and Translational Medicine, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy.
(4)Department of Microbiology, National School of Public Health, Athens, Greece.
(5)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy
Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy.
(6)Laboratory of Bacteriology, Hellenic Pasteur Institute, Athens, Greece.
(7)Department of Microbiology, National School of Public Health, Athens, Greece
Central Public Health Laboratory, Hellenic Centre of Disease Control and
Prevention, Vari, Greece.
(8)Department of Medical Biotechnologies, University of Siena, Siena, Italy
Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, University of Florence,
Florence, Italy Microbiology and Virology Unit, Careggi University Hospital,
Florence, Italy Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation, Florence, Italy
gianmaria.rossolini@unifi.it.

OBJECTIVES: Global dissemination of KPC-type carbapenemases is mainly associated 
with the spread of high-risk clones of Klebsiella pneumoniae and of KPC-encoding 
plasmids. In this study, we explored the population structure of KPC-encoding
plasmids from the recent epidemics of KPC-producing K. pneumoniae (KPC-Kp) in
Greece and Italy, the two major European endemic settings.
METHODS: Thirty-four non-replicate clinical strains of KPC-Kp representative of
the early phases (2008-11) of the Greek (n = 22) and Italian (n = 12) epidemics
were studied. Isolates were typed by MLST, and blaKPC-carrying plasmids were
characterized by S1 profiling, PCR-based replicon typing and RFLP. Transfer
experiments by conjugation or transformation were carried out with Escherichia
coli recipients. Eleven plasmids, representative of all different restriction
profiles, were completely sequenced.
RESULTS: The representative Greek strains belonged to 14 sequence types (STs),
with a predominance of ST258. The representative Italian strains belonged to
three STs, with a predominance of clonal complex 258 (ST258, ST512). The 34
strains carried plasmids of variable size (78-166 kb), either with blaKPC-2 or
blaKPC-3 gene embedded in a Tn4401a transposon. Plasmids from Greek strains were 
mostly of a single RFLP type (A) and resembled the archetypal pKpQIL KPC-encoding
plasmid, while plasmids from Italian strains belonged to a more heterogeneous
population, showing five RFLP profiles (A, C-F). Types A and C resembled pKpQIL
or deletion derivatives thereof, while types D-F included plasmids with hybrid
structures between pKpQIL, pKPN3 and pKPN101-IT.
CONCLUSIONS: pKpQIL-like plasmids played a major role in the dissemination of
blaKPC in Greece and Italy, but evolved with different dynamics in these endemic 
settings.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkw227 
PMID: 27334661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
HG969995.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
HG969996.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
HG969997.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
HG969998.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
HG969999.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
KF874496.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
KF874497.2.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
KF874498.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
KF874499.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
LT009688.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
LT009689.1.gb:   PUBMED   27334661
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2017 Jul;23(7):470-475. doi: 10.1016/j.cmi.2017.01.015.
Epub 2017 Jan 29.

Clonal or not clonal? Investigating hospital outbreaks of KPC-producing
Klebsiella pneumoniae with whole-genome sequencing.

Ruppé E(1), Olearo F(2), Pires D(3), Baud D(4), Renzi G(5), Cherkaoui A(5),
Goldenberger D(6), Huttner A(2), François P(4), Harbarth S(2), Schrenzel J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Genomic Research Laboratory, Service of Infectious Diseases, Geneva University
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: etienne.ruppe@hcuge.ch.
(2)Infection Control Program, Geneva University Hospitals and Faculty of
Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Infection Control Program, Geneva University Hospitals and Faculty of
Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland; Department of Infectious Diseases, Centro
Hospitalar Lisboa Norte and Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de Lisboa,
Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)Genomic Research Laboratory, Service of Infectious Diseases, Geneva University
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(5)Bacteriology Laboratory, Service of Laboratory Medicine, Department of
Genetics and Laboratory Medicine, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva,
Switzerland.
(6)Division of Clinical Microbiology, University Hospital Basel, Basel,
Switzerland.
(7)Genomic Research Laboratory, Service of Infectious Diseases, Geneva University
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland; Bacteriology Laboratory, Service of Laboratory
Medicine, Department of Genetics and Laboratory Medicine, Geneva University
Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) is a promising tool for identifying
transmission pathways in outbreaks caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria.
However, it is uncertain how the data produced by WGS can be best integrated into
epidemiologic investigations.
METHODS: We tested various genomic analyses to identify clonal groups in two
distinct outbreaks of Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase-producing K. pneumoniae
that occurred in Switzerland in 2013 and 2015. In blinded fashion, we sequenced
12 strains involved in the two outbreaks, respectively, and six that were
epidemiologically unrelated. We analysed genomic commonalities from conserved
genes to plasmid-borne antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and contrasted these
results with available epidemiologic evidence.
RESULTS: Using WGS, blinded analysts correctly identified the two clusters of
strains from the two outbreaks. Nonetheless, the 2015 index strain was found to
be slightly different (1-3 single nucleotide variants) from the strains recovered
from secondary cases, likely because prior long-term carriage (3 years) by the
index patient allowed for genetic mutations over time. Also, we observed
occasional loss of ARG-bearing plasmidic fragments in outbreak-causing strains.
CONCLUSIONS: Retrospective WGS analysis was successful in identifying clonal
groups in both outbreaks. Still, data should be analysed with caution in cases of
previous long-term carriage of the studied bacteria.

Copyright © 2017 European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious
Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2017.01.015 
PMID: 28143787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
CP019774.1.gb:   PUBMED   28143787
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2017 Aug 1;72(8):2241-2248. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkx141.

Major role of pKpQIL-like plasmids in the early dissemination of KPC-type
carbapenemases in the UK.

Doumith M(1), Findlay J(1), Hirani H(1), Hopkins KL(1), Livermore DM(2)(3),
Dodgson A(4), Woodford N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infections (AMRHAI)
Reference Unit, National Infection Service, Public Health England, London
NW9?5EQ, UK.
(2)Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infections (AMRHAI)
Reference Unit, National Infection Service, Public Health England, London
NW9 5EQ, UK.
(3)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich NR4 7TJ, UK.
(4)Public Health Laboratory, Manchester, UK.

Objectives: Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC)-producing
Enterobacteriaceae were first seen in the UK in 2003 and have been increasingly
reported since 2010, largely owing to an ongoing outbreak in North-West England. 
We examined the role of clonal spread and plasmid transmission in their
emergence.
Methods: Isolates comprised KPC-positive K. pneumoniae ( n  =   33), Escherichia 
coli ( n  =   7) and Enterobacter spp. ( n  =   4) referred to the national
reference laboratory between 2008 and 2010 from 17 UK centres, including three in
North-West England. Isolates were typed by MLST. Plasmids were transferred by
electroporation and characterized by PCR or sequencing. PCR screening assays were
developed to distinguish plasmid pKpQIL variants.
Results: The K. pneumoniae isolates included 10 STs, of which three belonged to
clonal group (CG) 258. CG258 ( n  =   19) isolates were detected in 13 centres
but accounted for only 7/19 (36.8%) of those from North-West England. Most
KPC-producers (37/44, 84.1%), including 16/19 CG258 K. pneumoniae , carried bla
KPC on IncFII K2 plasmids. Sequencing of a subset of these plasmids ( n  =   11) 
revealed similarities with published pKpQIL. One variant, pKpQIL-UK [identified
in K. pneumoniae CG258 ( n  =   5) and ST468 ( n  =   1) isolates from distinct
centres] had only a few nucleotide changes from classical pKpQIL, whereas
pKpQIL-D1 ( n  =   1) and pKpQIL-D2 ( n  =   4), from isolates of various species
in the North-West, harboured large variations, reflecting replacement of the
partitioning and replication functions and potentially thereby facilitating
spread. PCR revealed that 36/37 (97.3%) IncFII K2 -type plasmids in KPC-positive 
isolates had pKpQIL markers.
Conclusions: pKpQIL-like plasmids played a major role in the early dissemination 
of KPC enzymes in the UK.

© Crown copyright 2017.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkx141 
PMID: 28498924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KY798505.1.gb:   PUBMED   28498924
KY798506.1.gb:   PUBMED   28498924
KY798507.1.gb:   PUBMED   28498924
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2017 Sep 22;61(10). pii: e00989-17. doi:
10.1128/AAC.00989-17. Print 2017 Oct.

Resistance to Ceftazidime-Avibactam Is Due to Transposition of KPC in a
Porin-Deficient Strain of Klebsiella pneumoniae with Increased Efflux Activity.

Nelson K(1), Hemarajata P(2), Sun D(1), Rubio-Aparicio D(1), Tsivkovski R(1),
Yang S(3), Sebra R(4), Kasarskis A(4), Nguyen H(5), Hanson BM(5), Leopold S(5),
Weinstock G(5), Lomovskaya O(1), Humphries RM(6).

Author information: 
(1)The Medicines Company, San Diego, California, USA.
(2)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New Mexico,
USA.
(4)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York, USA.
(5)JAX Genomic Medicine, Farmington, Connecticut, USA.
(6)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, California, USA rhumphries@mednet.ucla.edu.

Ceftazidime-avibactam is an antibiotic with activity against serine
beta-lactamases, including Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC). Recently,
reports have emerged of KPC-producing isolates resistant to this antibiotic,
including a report of a wild-type KPC-3 producing sequence type 258 Klebsiella
pneumoniae that was resistant to ceftazidime-avibactam. We describe a detailed
analysis of this isolate, in the context of two other closely related KPC-3
producing isolates, recovered from the same patient. Both isolates encoded a
nonfunctional OmpK35, whereas we demonstrate that a novel T333N mutation in
OmpK36, present in the ceftazidime-avibactam resistant isolate, reduced the
activity of this porin and impacted ceftazidime-avibactam susceptibility. In
addition, we demonstrate that the increased expression of blaKPC-3 and blaSHV-12 
observed in the ceftazidime-avibactam-resistant isolate was due to transposition 
of the Tn4401 transposon harboring blaKPC-3 into a second plasmid, pIncX3, which 
also harbored blaSHV-12, ultimately resulting in a higher copy number of blaKPC-3
in the resistant isolate. pIncX3 plasmid from the ceftazidime-avibactam resistant
isolate, conjugated into a OmpK35/36-deficient K. pneumoniae background that
harbored a mutation to the ramR regulator of the acrAB efflux operon recreated
the ceftazidime-avibactam-resistant MIC of 32 μg/ml, confirming that this
constellation of mutations is responsible for the resistance phenotype.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00989-17 
PMCID: PMC5610495
PMID: 28739787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

 
####FOUND IN####
KY930324.1.gb:   PUBMED   28739787
KY930325.1.gb:   PUBMED   28739787
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Microb Genom. 2017 Apr 26;3(4):e000110. doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000110. eCollection
2017 Apr.

Diversity, virulence, and antimicrobial resistance of the KPC-producing
Klebsiella pneumoniae ST307 clone.

Villa L(1), Feudi C(1), Fortini D(1), Brisse S(2), Passet V(2), Bonura C(3),
Endimiani A(4), Mammina C(3), Ocampo AM(5), Jimenez JN(5), Doumith M(6), Woodford
N(6), Hopkins K(6), Carattoli A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.
(2)Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.
(3)University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(4)Institute of Infectious Diseases, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(5)Grupo de Microbiología Básica y Aplicada, Escuela de Microbiología Universidad
de Antioquia, Medellín, Colombia.
(6)Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infections (AMRHAI)
Reference Unit, National Infection Service, Public Health England, London, UK.

The global spread of Klebsiella pneumoniae producing Klebsiella pneumoniae
carbapenemase (KPC) has been mainly associated with the dissemination of
high-risk clones. In the last decade, hospital outbreaks involving KPC-producing 
K. pneumoniae have been predominantly attributed to isolates belonging to clonal 
group (CG) 258. However, results of recent epidemiological analysis indicate that
KPC-producing sequence type (ST) 307, is emerging in different parts of the world
and is a candidate to become a prevalent high-risk clone in the near future. Here
we show that the ST307 genome encodes genetic features that may provide an
advantage in adaptation to the hospital environment and the human host. Sequence 
analysis revealed novel plasmid-located virulence factors, including a cluster
for glycogen synthesis. Glycogen production is considered to be one of the
possible adaptive responses to long-term survival and growth in environments
outside the host. Chromosomally-encoded virulence traits in the clone comprised
fimbriae, an integrative conjugative element carrying the yersiniabactin
siderophore, and two different capsular loci. Compared with the ST258 clone,
capsulated ST307 isolates showed higher resistance to complement-mediated
killing. The acquired genetic features identified in the genome of this new
emerging clone may contribute to increased persistence of ST307 in the hospital
environment and shed light on its potential epidemiological success.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000110 
PMCID: PMC5506382
PMID: 28785421 

 
####FOUND IN####
KY271403.1.gb:   PUBMED   28785421
KY271413.1.gb:   PUBMED   28785421
KY271414.1.gb:   PUBMED   28785421
KY271415.1.gb:   PUBMED   28785421
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Lancet Infect Dis. 2018 Jan;18(1):37-46. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30489-9. Epub
2017 Aug 29.

A fatal outbreak of ST11 carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae
in a Chinese hospital: a molecular epidemiological study.

Gu D(1), Dong N(2), Zheng Z(2), Lin D(3), Huang M(4), Wang L(5), Chan EW(2), Shu 
L(3), Yu J(3), Zhang R(6), Chen S(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital of
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China; Center for Cancer Biology and Innovative
Therapeutics, Key Laboratory of Tumor Molecular Diagnosis and Individualized
Medicine of Zhejiang Province, Clinical Research Institute, Zhejiang Provincial
People's Hospital, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Lab for Food Biological Safety Control, Food Safety and
Technology Research Center, Hong Kong PolyU Shen Zhen Research Institute,
Shenzhen, China; State Key Lab of Chirosciences, Department of Applied Biology
and Chemical Technology, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital of
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(4)General Intensive Care Unit, Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Radiology, Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou, China.
(6)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Second Affiliated Hospital of
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: brigitte_zx@163.com.
(7)Shenzhen Key Lab for Food Biological Safety Control, Food Safety and
Technology Research Center, Hong Kong PolyU Shen Zhen Research Institute,
Shenzhen, China; State Key Lab of Chirosciences, Department of Applied Biology
and Chemical Technology, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region, China. Electronic address:
sheng.chen@polyu.edu.hk.

BACKGROUND: Hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae strains often cause
life-threatening community-acquired infections in young and healthy hosts, but
are usually sensitive to antibiotics. In this study, we investigated a fatal
outbreak of ventilator-associated pneumonia caused by a new emerging
hypervirulent K pneumoniae strain.
METHODS: The outbreak occurred in the integrated intensive care unit of a new
branch of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University (Hangzhou,
China). We collected 21 carbapenem-resistant K pneumoniae strains from five
patients and characterised these strains for their antimicrobial susceptibility, 
multilocus sequence types, and genetic relatedness using VITEK-2 compact system, 
multilocus sequence typing, and whole genome sequencing. We selected one
representative isolate from each patient to establish the virulence potential
using a human neutrophil assay and Galleria mellonella model and to establish the
genetic basis of their hypervirulence phenotype.
FINDINGS: All five patients had undergone surgery for multiple trauma and
subsequently received mechanical ventilation. The patients were aged 53-73 years 
and were admitted to the intensive care unit between late February and April,
2016. They all had severe pneumonia, carbapenem-resistant K pneumoniae
infections, and poor responses to antibiotic treatment and died due to severe
lung infection, multiorgan failure, or septic shock. All five representative
carbapenem-resistant K pneumoniae strains belonged to the ST11 type, which is the
most prevalent carbapenem-resistant K pneumoniae type in China, and originated
from the same clone. The strains were positive on the string test, had survival
of about 80% after 1 h incubation in human neutrophils, and killed 100% of wax
moth larvae (G mellonella) inoculated with 1 × 106 colony-forming units of the
specimens within 24 h, suggesting that they were hypervirulent K pneumoniae.
Genomic analyses showed that the emergence of these ST11 carbapenem-resistant
hypervirulent K pneumoniae strains was due to the acquisition of a roughly 170
kbp pLVPK-like virulence plasmid by classic ST11 carbapenem-resistant K
pneumoniae strains. We also detected these strains in specimens collected in
other regions of China.
INTERPRETATION: The ST11 carbapenem-resistant hypervirulent K pneumoniae strains 
pose a substantial threat to human health because they are simultaneously
hypervirulent, multidrug resistant, and highly transmissible. Control measures
should be implemented to prevent further dissemination of such organisms in the
hospital setting and the community.
FUNDING: Chinese National Key Basic Research and Development Program and
Collaborative Research Fund of Hong Kong Research Grant Council.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(17)30489-9 
PMID: 28864030 

 
####FOUND IN####
MF437312.1.gb:   PUBMED   28864030
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2018 Jan 1;73(1):252-254. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkx335.

Emergence of Escherichia coli co-producing NDM-1 and KPC-2 carbapenemases from a 
retail vegetable, China.

Wang J(1), Yao X(1), Luo J(1), Lv L(1), Zeng Z(1), Liu JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkx335 
PMID: 29029065 

 
####FOUND IN####
MF383354.1.gb:   PUBMED   29029065
_________________________________________________________________________________________

1. Front Microbiol. 2018 Mar 19;9:478. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00478. eCollection
2018.

Dissemination of KPC-2-Encoding IncX6 Plasmids Among Multiple Enterobacteriaceae 
Species in a Single Chinese Hospital.

Li B(1), Feng J(2), Zhan Z(2), Yin Z(2), Jiang Q(3), Wei P(1), Chen X(1), Gao
B(2), Hou J(3), Mao P(3), Wu W(4), Chen W(4), Tong Y(2), Wang J(2), Li B(3), Zhou
D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The 306th Hospital of the People's
Liberation Army, Beijing, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of
Microbiology and Epidemiology, Beijing, China.
(3)The 302nd Hospital of the People's Liberation Army, Beijing, China.
(4)Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

Forty-five KPC-producing Enterobacteriaceae strains were isolated from multiple
departments in a Chinese public hospital from 2014 to 2015. Genome sequencing of 
four representative strains, namely Proteus mirabilis GN2, Serratia marcescens
GN26, Morganella morganii GN28, and Klebsiella aerogenes E20, indicated the
presence of blaKPC-2-carrying IncX6 plasmids pGN2-KPC, pGN26-KPC, pGN28-KPC, and 
pE20-KPC in the four strains, respectively. These plasmids were genetically
closely related to one another and to the only previously sequenced IncX6
plasmid, pKPC3_SZ. Each of the plasmids carried a single accessory module
containing the blaKPC-2/3-carrying ΔTn6296 derivatives. The ΔTn6292 element from 
pGN26-KPC also contained qnrS, which was absent from all other plasmids. Overall,
pKPC3_SZ-like blaKPC-carrying IncX6 plasmids were detected by PCR in 44.4% of the
KPC-producing isolates, which included K. aerogenes, P. mirabilis, S. marcescens,
M. morganii, Escherichia coli, and Klebsiella pneumoniae, and were obtained from 
six different departments of the hospital. Data presented herein provided
insights into the genomic diversity and evolution of IncX6 plasmids, as well as
the dissemination and epidemiology of blaKPC-carrying IncX6 plasmids among
Enterobacteriaceae in a hospital setting.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00478 
PMCID: PMC5868456
PMID: 29616001 

 
####FOUND IN####
MG288681.1.gb:   PUBMED   29616001
_________________________________________________________________________________________
